Mr. Peter Ede, a former member of the House of Representatives, has called for a brand new constitution written by the people themselves. Ede argued that the ongoing constitutional amendment would not address Nigeria’s many problems saying that the present constitution was foisted on the people by the military and contained many flaws. Ede made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Abakaliki at the wedding of Dr Lillian Mbam, daughter of Chief Elias Mbam, Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC). Former Miss Mbam got wedded to Mr Paulicarp Ori, a Flight Lieutenant in the Nigerian Air Force at St Theresa’s Catholic Cathedral Church, Ogoja Road, Abakaliki. The former lawmaker, who represented Ishielu/Ezza North Federal Constituency between 1999 and 2007, said amending sections of the constitution would not solve Nigeria’s socio-political and economic challenges. Oduduwa: Yoruba people will suffer if they break away from Nigeria – Osun monarch Ede explained that the 1999 constitution, which had undergone some amendments, had yet to address some burning issues affecting the unity, oneness and indivisibility of Nigeria. “Many have called for a stop of the ongoing review process. “I remember that we amended the constitution eight years ago and some of the amended sections were later signed into law while some were not. “A lot of issues have arisen over time since the last amendment and the majority of the people are saying stop the review process and I am beginning to see that they are actually correct. “The 1999 constitution (as amended), no matter how we beat it up, no matter how we amend it can never assume the sovereignty that is supposed to be its nature. “A constitution is supposed to be an ‘organic’ document that evolved from the people. “Hence, I am a proponent of a brand new constitution because what we have seen so far is a military document foisted on us. “The more you try to amend the document, the more contentious it becomes, the more problematic it becomes. “There are more fundamental things that are supposed to be built into it that the present arrangement will not allow,” Ede said. Nigeria will soon get all inclusive constitution in line with democratic tenets – Omo Agege