As the Big Brother Nigeria, BBN, reunion kicked off on Thursday, June 17, 2021, followers of the reality television show have been thrilled with the achievements of Olamilekan Moshood Agbeleshe AKA Laycon within the space of one year. Laycon is the winner of the 2020 season of the show tagged ‘Big Brother Naija Lockdown’ He won a grand prize of N85 million and has in one year achieved a lot within a short time in the entertainment industry. BBNaija: Laycon, Erica, Kiddwaya’s relationships, others to headline lockdown re-union show
On February 11, Laycon launched his Showmax series titled I Am Laycon. The series showed stories about his life and new found fame. He also Featured in DJ Neptune and Joeboy‘s “Nobody“, and Mr Real’s “Baba Fela“. Laycon few months ago dropped a single “HipHop” featuring Deshinor, and “Fall for Me” featuring YKB. He was also appointed the youth Ambassador by the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun and received a chieftaincy title from the Onipokia of Ipokia, Ogun State. On Friday, April 30, 2021, he released his 12-track album “Shall We Begin” which has continued to thrill his fans. Reacting to his achievements, fans of the show commended him for his creativity and advised him to aim higher. Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered. @pemgmaodel, “Laycon is one of the most successful Big Brother Naija Winner in history. @Tomisanfunmi, “Again #SWBTheAlbum is a classic album and it is one of the best albums of 2021. Laycon is a treasure and I’m a proud stan.” @favorgrace, “I love the intro. They show all the housemate achievements after the show. Kudos. I am so proud of my Boy Laycon #BBNaijaReunion.” @Briticoplease, “Awww. Laycon looks so good plus he’s accomplished so much in less than a year.” @fozadoza, “Laycon is really an unproblematic boy tbh. I love that about him. Just wants to do his music and chill.” @kofoworola, “Laycon has gone from being an unknown artiste to a top charting artiste. Youth ambassador to Ogun state government and he has his own reality show. His story is a proof that our dreams are valid, we all just need to keep believing.”