Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Muhammad Musa Bello, has received his second dose of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. DAILY POST recalls that the Minister on March 11 2020 took his first jab in his office at Area 11, Abuja making him eligible for the second dose. Speaking after receiving the vaccine on Thursday, the Minister revealed that 98 percent of the total doses allocated the FCT by the Federal Government have been used. He called on all residents to ensure they are all vaccinated against the dreaded virus which held the entire would down in 2020. Proceed for your second COVID-19 vaccine doses – FG to Nigerians He said, “Whatever, support the Federal Government is giving to us in the FCT, let’s grab it and use it effectively because, unless we get a substantial percentage of our population fully vaccinated, then we will not reach what the public health officials call herd immunity whereby we can say that the incidence of this particular disease has been conquered.”  According to him, it is only through vaccination that they can develop immunity against the virus stressing that those who are yet to participate in the vaccination exercise should endeavour to do so. The Minister further noted that while the number of positive cases in the FCT has been on a steady decline, in spite of the large number of residents being tested, residents must not be complacent but should continue to take measures to protect themselves against the virus. The Minister also assured that the FCT Administration will continue to work hard to ensure that every resident is protected against COVID-19, with the efforts of the FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat. He, thereafter, called on officials of the HHSS to continue to work to maintain all the facilities that have been established and installed for the purpose of the pandemic, to ensure that the FCT is fully prepared for any unforeseen event.  Others who received their second jab alongside the Minister were the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, the Chief of Staff to the Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu, and other officials. COVID-19: 4,683 Nigerians receive second dose of AstraZeneca Vaccine — FG