The Senator representing Plateau North Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Istifanus Gyang has reiterated calls for the establishment of State Police, fully equipped with modern equipment to address the security challenges bedevilling the Country. He expressed regret over the myriads of security challenges across the country, resulting in the unprecedented loss of lives and displacement of communities and attendant humanitarian crisis and plight of IDPs. Gyang disclosed this in Jos the Plateau State while addressing journalists on his midterm report. He said there was a need to empower and equip security operatives to bring to an end “insurgency and banditry”. “We are very hopeful that the supplementary budget the Presidency will be bringing to the National Assembly, is to address two things; to further equip the security agencies and address the challenges of COVID-19. Gyang who is the Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, called for the devolution of powers to empower, address the issue of security and development including the establishment of State Police. Speaking on his three core vision for his constituents, the Legislator said, “To guarantee the security of the people, to reconcile the people on the platform of peace, and seek avenues to empower the citizenry. He noted that, as a representative of the people, he has used his office to attract Federal Government projects in the areas of education, health, agriculture, social infrastructure, employment generation, among others. He further said he has made efforts towards the reorientation of the youths in productive engagements against “harmful and destructive” attitude of abuse, by organising a football tournament between local governments within his senatorial zone. “We sought to achieve two things; providing a platform for the discovery of hidden football talents that are in the grassroots. “It was also a platform to promote peace, unity and to reconcile our people”, he explained. “As a matter of policy and commitment, we are bent to give a new approach to managing diversity; by adopting equity and fairness in the allocation of projects”, he assured. Gyang, however, said it is the responsibility of the Senate to check not only excesses of corruption in the system but to correct the imbalances in the failure to comply with the constitutional provisions of Federal Character.