Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, yesterday, said that the peace being enjoyed in Enugu State was made possible because of the support of all the stakeholders and people of the state “who agreed that peace should reign”. Gov. Ugwuanyi, who spoke at a Thank-you rally organized by Opi Youths Movement (OYM) in recognition of his peace and development strides in Enugu State as well as his “unprecedented love and benevolence for Opi people including their youth”, held at St. Charles Catholic Church, Opi, in Nsukka Local Government Area, thanked the people of the area for their overwhelming support especially during his reelection. The event also witnessed a civic reception in honour of the Chairman of Nsukka Local Government Area, Hon. Barr. Cosmas Ugwueze, who hails from Opi. Gov. Ugwuanyi expressed appreciation for all the stakeholders of Opi for coming together to recognize his administration’s modest achievements in spite of the nation’s various challenges bothering on economy, insecurity and public health. The governor equally thanked the leaders and people of Enugu State for allowing peace to reign in the state and urged them to continue to remember him and his administration in their prayers. In his address, the President General of Opi Youths Movement (OYM), Comrade Collins Ikenna Ezeagbo, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for restoring peace in Opi and Nsukka LGA “as you can witness here today”. Comrade Ezeagbo described the governor as “an ambassador of peace”, stressing that “that peace you have given to us and by that peace, you have given us progress in Cosmas Ugwueze (Chairman) because peace begets progress and we are eternally and exceedingly grateful to you”. The youth leader thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for considering many of their sons and daughters for appointment into elective and appointive positions. He noted that the Chairman of Nsukka LGA, Hon. Ugwueze, the acting Vice Chancellor of Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), Prof. Charles Eze, the Chairman, Enugu State Housing Development Corporation (ESHDC), Barr. Nwabueze Ugwu and a Commissioner, Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC), Dr. Mrs. Bernadine Ezugwu, are all from Opi. Speaking, the Chairman of Nsukka LGA, Hon. Ugwueze, expressed profound gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for his leadership role in his political career. He reassured the governor of his absolute loyalty and commitment towards his administration’s laudable programmes through promotion of peace, unity and good governance in the council area. The council chairman also hailed Gov. Ugwuanyi’s transformation agenda in Enugu State through projects such as the state-of-the-art Opi-Nsukka dual carriageway as well as other numerous developmental projects in the rural areas of the state and beyond, in spite of the state’s lean resources and the nation’s challenges. “Your Excellency, I am holding trust for you. I am not taking it for granted. I have kept the trust you handed over to me. Nsukka LGA is intact. Everything is about you and God. “We have not done this kind of rally in Opi in the past. All our stakeholders, traditional rulers, youths and women are here. My loyalty to you is 100 percent”, Hon. Ugwueze declared. Other dignitaries at the event were the member representing Nsukka/Igbo-Eze South Federal Constituency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Pat Asadu; the member representing Nsukka East Constituency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Chinedu Nwamba; his Nsukka West counterpart, Rt. Hon. Dr. Emma, Ugwuerua; former State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Engr. Vita Abba, former Secretary to Enugu State Government, Chief Dr Dan Shere; Commissioners for Education, Justice and Local Government Affairs, Prof. Uche Eze, Mr. Miletus Eze and Hon. Peter Okonkwo respectively; Hon. Ikechukwu Ugwuegede and his wife; Provost, ESUT College of Medicine, Prof. Frank Ezugwu and his wife, and PDP State Woman Leader, Mrs. Vera Ezugwu, among others.