A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has ordered substituted service of the court process on Terrence Kuanum over libellous publications made against PRNigeria publisher, Yushau Shuaib. Justice Suleman Belgore issued the order following complaints by a lawyer to the plaintiff, Barrister Yunus Abdulsalam that the “former military apologist” has been evading service. The lawyer told Justice Belgore in an application that Kuanum could not be reached since the matter against him was filed in June 2020. Abdulsalam sought permission that the court process and the hearing notice be served on the defendant via his last known home address or WhatsApp Number or email address. The Judge granted the requests and ordered that Kuanum be served with the originating summon and the hearing notice. Justice Belgore fixed July 14, 2021 as the return date for the report of service on the defendant. Last year, Shuaib slammed a N500million libel suit against a Kuanum as general and exemplary damages for defamation of his character. The former spokesman of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) applied for an order compelling the defendant to tender a public apology in at least two national dailies. Shuaib complained of how Kuanum called him an empathizer and spy proxy for Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP). In the writ of summons no: CV/1705/2020 dated June 3, 2020, the plaintiff said words against his reputation and image were contained in Kuanum’s article titled: “A Rejoinder to An Impenitent Boko Haram Empathizer, Yushau Shuaib spleen in Memo to President Buhari on Service Chiefs”. The publication followed an opinion Shuaib wrote on January 28, 2020, “Memo to President Buhari on Service Chiefs”. The author had urged former Service Chiefs – Abayomi Olonisakin, Tukur Buratai, Abubakar Sadique and Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas – to exit the military for fresh hands to take over the war against terrorists and for carrer progression of competent military officers.