Faith, a 25-year-old singer has been evicted from the Nigerian Idol season 6 show. Faith, who was among the top five Nigerian Idol finalists had to leave the show after he secured the lowest number of votes, leaving 4 other constants to battle for the prize. His exit has left four contestants: Comfort, Emmanuel, Akunna and Kingdom to fight for the prize. However, it came as a surprise to some fans as they took to Twitter lamenting about the voting system and pity party votes for Comfort. Nigerian Idol: Beyonce evicted as Comfort, Faith, others emerge top six
According to some, Faith deserved to be among the four not Comfort. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, BBNaija host, expressing shock about Faith’s exit on his Twitter page wrote: “Wow! Can’t believe Faith didn’t make top 4.” Here are other comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @Mc Bankz “Comfort staying and faith going home is an indication that Nigerians will still vote another buhari come 2023.” @Charisma_iam “So Faith, as in a whole faith had to go and Comfort is still there. It’s the audacity for me.” @Oluwatracie “Daniel, Emmanuel and now Faith. All 3 were good vocalists/performers yet didn’t make it to the top 4. Nigerian Idol: How underrated Alalade Comfort made it to last 8
Nigerians and grass to grace stories.” @Fuoma “A whole FAITH JASON! Come on you all. And the sponsors of the show, come on! This show is wack! @Nwabekeyi “The fact that faith left the show before Comfort is a pointer to why meritocracy can never see the light in Nigeria. Nigerians are Picassos in the act of Nepotism and favoritism. Little wonder country is not working.” @Uk_ Bernard “Faith Jason going home is never a fair justice from the voting system. Sentiments and bias should no way be the deciding factor to determine an idol at this stage otherwise it’s no Idol at all. No disrespect to Comfort but I think she still got a lot to learn.” @Spearssaint “This voting system should be reviewed, the yardstick used 4 qualification shouldn’t be solely on votes alone,gatekeepers should be enforced & talent shouldnt be lost at the expense of “majority carrying the vote” system! Goodbye Faith!” @Chizzyvivy “The people that are voting for Comfort are the same who voted Laycon and Buhari. Corruption in the high places.” @OluchiDike4 “This type of talent show is not supposed to be solely about voting. Panels of Judges need to step in sometimes for vetting after a phase.” Meanwhile, the top four finalists on Sunday night left the audience and the judges in awe-inspiring performances as they performed two songs each.