The Kaduna State Police Command has rescued five persons from bandits in Jema’a and Igabi local government areas of the state. The State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, in a statement said the gunmen had blocked Jagindi Godo-Godo road, attacked a Sharon Vehicle and abducted the occupants. The statement said operatives gave the bandits a hot chase and exchanged tactical fire after the bandits shot sporadically at the security men. ”On the 7th June 2021, the Kaduna Police Command received a distress call through DPO Kafanchan that at about 0130hrs unknown Gunmen had blocked Jagindi Godo-Godo road, attacked a Sharon Vehicle with Reg.No MGU 15 ZF and suspected to have abducted the occupants of the said vehicle. Jema’a secretary, wife, daughter-in-law murdered in Kaduna ”On receipt of the information, the DPO led a team of Policemen to the scene, gave the bandits a hot chase occasioned by a tactical fire response against the bandits who were shooting sporadically at the Operatives. The Police confirmed that Operatives, however, succeeded in rescuing three victims unhurt. ”We rescued Godiya Ishaya ‘M’ of Bukuru town Jos, Blessing Isuwa ‘F’ of Kanke LGA Plateau state and Emmanuel Daniel ‘M’ of Gbai Bagori village of Bauchi state. The Command also informed that it received a report from the DPO Rigasa Kaduna that on the same date at about 0248hrs some armed bandits invaded the residence of one Abdulganiyu Husseini ‘M’ 45 years of Mahuta Community, kidnapped him, his wife and daughter and were said to be heading to the forest. It said, “On getting the hint of the incident, Operatives were immediately mobilized to the area and engaged the bandits in a fierce exchange of fire of which the superior and tactical firepower of the Police forced the Bandits to abandon the wife and her daughter, namely; Nafisat Abdulganiyu ‘F’ 40 years (wife) and (2) Barakat Abdulganiyu ‘F’ (daughter). Unfortunately, they escaped with one victim that is, the husband cum father mentioned earlier to an unknown destination.” Kaduna: Bandits kill four in Igabi, Jema’a LGAs, three others sustain injuries
It added that effort is being intensified to rescue the victim and possibly arrest the culprits. The Commissioner of Police Kaduna, CP UM Muri expressed appreciation to the good people of Kaduna State for always being supportive to the Command in the area of prompt report of incidents or suspicious situation and equally charged Officers and men in the Command to work closely with their host communities to ensure the safety of lives and property while protecting the identity of those who volunteered information at all times.