Senator representing Osun Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Ajibola Basiru has said he is not a member of The Osun Progressives (TOP), a group within the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking during an interview on a radio current affairs programme monitored by DAILY POST in Osogbo on Friday, Basiru claimed he is a member of the APC in the state and also a member and the facilitator of the Osun Positive Force (OPF). He disclosed that the OPF has been part of the APC structure in Osun since 2012 and it has been working for the success of the party ever since. The lawmaker who is also the Senate Spokesman said aside from the Osun Positive Force, that he was not a member of any other organisation within the party. Senator Basiru fires Malami for calling Southerners spare parts traders While describing his relationship with Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola as cordial, Senator Basiru maintained that he is not an enemy of the state government as the state has been facilitating some of his projects. He also revealed that he has always visited the Minister of Interior and has reiterated publicly that he is for the unity, cohesion and progress of the APC in the state because of his belief that the party is always the party to beat in any election in Osun State. Senator Ajibola Basiru was the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice during the administration of Rauf Aregbesola as governor of Osun State. DAILY POST recalls that the emergence of The Osun Progressives (TOP) as a group within the ruling All Progressives Congress in Osun has generated a lot of controversies and has even contributed to the perceived misunderstanding between Adegboyega Oyetola and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola. The controversy has degenerated to the point where the APC Elders Forum in the state had suspended Moses Adebiyi Adelowo a former Chairman of the party who has assumed leadership of TOP. Also, Adegboyega Famodun, the current Chairman of the party in Osun has denounced TOP and stated that its formation was an aberration which was contrary to the constitution of the APC. Insecurity: Abia leaders back Southern Govs, laud Ikpeazu on anti-open grazing law