Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers at the early hours of Sunday kidnapped two women in Imo State, immediately after first church service at different locations of Ohii and Dim na nume, Isu areas of the State, respectively. The state’s police command confirmed the incident. 2. A former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling party to address the separatist agitations in the country through democratic means instead of deployment of military. He spoke during the public presentation of a book in Abuja yesterday. 3. Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) says it will begin full operation of the standard gauge railway service from Lagos to Ibadan tomorrow. It stated this, yesterday, in a statement by its Lagos District Manager, Mr Jerry Oche. 4. Two days after an attack on Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria, Kaduna State, gunmen have again attacked Kofar Gayan and Kofar Kona areas of Zaria and abducted residents. ASP Mohammed Jalige, Police Public Relations Officer, Kaduna State Command confirmed the incidence. 5. Human rights lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) yesterday, accused the police of violating the freedom of expression over the arrests of June 12 protesters on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, Falana demanded an apology to all protesters arrested in Abuja, Lagos and Calabar during the peaceful protests. 6. Chris Ngige, the Minister of Labour and Employment, has dismissed claims of the Federal Government marginalizing the Southeast, insisting that the region has equal representation at the Federal Executive Council, FEC. He spoke at an emergency stakeholders meeting of the Association of Eze Ndigbo in the 19 Northern States and Abuja during the weekend. 7. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has kicked against the practice of open grazing as directed by President Muhammad Buhari. The governor spoke while addressing the audience at a June 12 Memorial Lecture in Akure. 8. Olusegun Obasanjo, a former President of Nigeria has again written an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari about the current state of the nation. He said if Buhari fails to be proactive, Nigeria would fall into the hands of suspected criminals, reprisal attacks on Fulanis, attacks on other ethnic groups, as well as series of uprisings in parts of the country. 9. Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State has insisted that Boko Haram offers new recruits N5,000 and use them as spies in communities. The Governor disclosed this during the weekend. 10. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, have described the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, as a bridge-builder, whose works cut across tribes, religions, political parties and generations. They spoke during the presentation of a photobook in Abuja.