The member representing Daura Federal Constituency of Katsina State in the House of Representatives, Fatahu Muhammad, has defended the suspension of Twitter in Nigeria. Recall that the federal government, on June 4, suspended Twitter from operating in the country. The action stirred criticisms from countries, groups and individuals at home and abroad, who described the decision as an attack on freedom of expression. Mr Muhammad, who is from Buhari’s constituency said social media needs to be regulated in order for youths to put Nigeria first and face the real problems. Expressing disappointment at Nigerian youths, the lawmaker said Twitter was not food that Nigerians required. The lawmaker said this on Tuesday during the investigative hearing organised by the House joint committees on Information, National Orientation, Ethics and Values alongside the National Security, Justice and Commerce, on the suspension of Twitter. “For God sake, what is social media? Are we eating social media? Let us go back to the resources, and harvest them, and let keep this thing aside, and face the real problem in Nigeria. “My colleagues have spoken the mind of their constituents. If I would speak the mind of my constituents, I would include the president, because out of 360 of us, I am the only one voted by the president. Look, Nigeria first, let us be honest to ourselves, let us call a spade a spade,” he said. He added that if Twitter was not suspended after they pulled down Buhari’s tweet, the insults to the sovereignty of Nigeria would have been more. “We should please regulate the media. “If the minister did not ban Twitter on the instruction of the President, the kind of insults to the sovereignty of Nigeria from the users of Twitter would be more than what we are facing. “Let us tell ourselves the truth, Nigeria comes first. Sometimes, when I am reading tweets, I am disappointed with the youths (because) we are the future of Nigeria,” he added. Meanwhile, Buhari has set a team to dialogue with Twitter on the suspension of the micro blogging site in the country.