A political group within the All Progressives Congress (APC), APC Patriots has called on the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige to accept the outcome of the party’s governorship primary election in Anambra State last weekend. The group which comprises eminent members of the party, mostly former state and federal lawmakers said it would embark on a journey to reunite all the aggrieved aspirants of the party who feel bitter over the outcome of the exercise. Last Saturday’s primary election of the party which produced Sen. Andy Uba had been rejected by the leader of the party in the state, Dr Ngige and 10 aspirants, who alleged that no election was held. But APC patriots in a press conference on Wednesday in Awka said no election is free of hitches, including those conducted by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Victor Ogene a former member of the House of Representatives and the spokesman of the group who addressed journalists said, “Some hitches, including late distribution and commencement of voting, attended last Saturday’s primaries. “Suffice it to say that it affected all the aspirants in equal measure, as electoral materials got to each LGAs at the same time. “In almost all elections, including those conducted by the INEC, such glitches are easily noticeable, yet it does not vitiate the out one of the contest.” The group said it is saddened by the undue haste by some of the aspirants and leaders of the party who discredited the exercise, even when voting was yet to be concluded. “It is for this reason that we have commenced a series of strategic engagements, aimed at rallying all our aspirants for the arduous, yet achievable task before us, which is winning the November 6, governorship election.
“We plead with our leader, Dr Chris Ngige to please join hands with our candidate in this election task. We will meet him soon, but we will rather not advise our leader further on the pages of newspapers.” Group warns APC against imposition of candidate in Anambra poll, says it’ll cause implosion