Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State have congratulated the winner of the party’s Saturday primary election in the state, Mr Valentine Ozigbo. Ozigbo, in the election conducted by the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Mr Philip Shaibu, scored 62 votes to beat his closest rivals; Dr Obiora Okonkwo and Senator Uche Ekwunife, who scored 58 and 44 votes respectively. Former governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, in his congratulatory message to Ozigbo said: “I congratulate Valentine Ozigbo, and I thank the National Chairman who, together with his leadership, has remained neutral. I congratulate the PDP family in Anambra State who has given the state the most peaceful and organized process of choosing a candidate.” Ex-Transcorp boss, Ozigbo picks PDP ticket for Anambra Governorship election He commended other contestants that participated in the election for their hard work and sacrifices. He called on them not to see the conclusion of the gubernatorial primaries “as the end of the beginning, but rather the beginning of the end.” Also, former Anambra State governorship candidate of the party in 2017, Mr Oseloka Obaze, congratulated Ozigbo on his victory, while reminding him that more work needs to be done to win over Anambra State in the November 6 election. Obaze’s message to Ozigbo read: “Hearty Congratulations to Mr Valentine Chineto Ozigbo on clinching the PDP governorship ticket last night 26/06/21. “It was a well fought, and well deserved effort. There’s more work left to be done to capture government house Awka, and reunite our great party ahead of the Nov. 6 elections. We must also all rally to the cause and collectively work hard to reconcile our party. “As a PDP stakeholder, I offer my full and unalloyed support to Val personally and his campaign ahead and in every effort to rebuild our party. Now that the primaries are over, I call on all the PDP aspirants to come out and fully support Mr Ozigbo so that we can collectively achieve victory on 6 November 2021.” PDP chieftain, Ozigbo demands reversal of Twitter suspension in Nigeria