Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Bauchi State have apprehended two quack medical personnel for running a clinic without permits at Mansur village in Alkaleri Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Parading the suspects in Bauchi, the NSCDC State Commandant, Mr Nuradeen Abdullahi, informed that the illegal clinic had been in operation for 20 years without being licenced by the government. He said the illegal medical personnel, 48-year-old Yakubu Gajere and 30-year-old Jude Abarshi, were arrested by his men following a tip-off after the death of one Mrs Nasiya Garba, a resident of the village, in the illegal clinic. Abdullahi informed that the village head of Mansur, through his representative, reported the case of suspected illegal operation of the clinic in the village to the Corps, adding that NSCDC divisional officer in AlKaleri LGA effected the arrest of the suspects. Osun govt shuts down 600 quack private schools, gives reasons for action “The village head of Mansur through his representative reported an illegal operation of a clinic that resulted in the death of a woman, late Mrs Nasiya Garba, a 25-year-old resident of the village. “The NSCDC Divisional officer in Alkaleri LGA immediately swung into action after receiving the complaint and arrested the two suspected illegal medical practitioners, 48-year-old Yakubu Gajere who is working with 30-year-old Jude Abarshi,” the state commandant informed. He explained that preliminary investigation by the Corps showed that the late Nasiya Garba was an asthmatic patient, adding that she went to the illegal clinic for medical attention, where the suspects administered her an injection unprofessionally, which immediately made her unconscious and eventually led to her death. Abdullahi then said the two suspects would be charged to court at the end of ongoing investigations. The commandant, however, advised members of the public to take issues relating to their health seriously and seek medical attention only at government-owned health facilities. Fielding questions from journalists, the owner of the illegal clinic, Yakubu Gajere, while admitting the death of the woman in his facility, claimed that he is a health worker employed by the Bauchi State government before he was disengaged by a previous administration in the state. According to him, he had been operating the clinic for over 20 years without blemish until the recent incident. “I started operating the clinic without a license or permission for over 20 years now in the village. Things have been going on well and this is the first time we lost somebody in the clinic,” he said. Meanwhile, reacting to the development, the Deputy Director, Public Health in the Bauchi State Ministry of Health, Abdullahi Danasabe, said going by the records of the ministry, the suspects’ clinic was illegal as it was operating without a permit. Danasabe, who doubles as the desk officer on private clinics in the ministry, said the suspects ought not to operate their clinic without laid down regulations. “Going by the regulations, the two suspects are not allowed to operate a clinic. As soon as all investigations are completed by the relevant security agencies, the two suspects will be made to face the full wrath of the law,” he declared. The Deputy Director then called on people of the state, especially rural dwellers to watch out for quack medical personnel who normally take advantage of them, fleece them of their money and in the process give them unprofessional services, which could worsen their situation and in some cases lead to death. Buhari’s official driver, Afaka is dead