The Osun Command of the Nigeria Police has vowed to ensure that those responsible for last Sunday’s violent clash between Egungun worshippers and an Islamic group face the full weight of the law. The Command insists that heads will roll irrespective of affiliations as an investigation to unravel the cause of the clash which led to injuries and death of Moshood Salahudeen, unfolds. Recall that on Sunday, the Kamorudeen Islamic Society of Nigeria and Egungun Worshippers Association in Osogbo were engaged in a violent clash. In a radio current affairs program monitored by DAILY POST Tuesday in Osogbo, the Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokode disclosed that he had directed the Assistant Commissioner of Police to personally handle the investigation as the Investigative Police Officer (IPO). He maintained that some persons will have to pay the price of the violent clash since a crime of murder was committed. Olokode revealed that from initial reports available to the Police, the masqueraders had accessed the public road but on their return leg were prevented from using the same road again by the Islamic group who had blocked the road with their religious activities. Islamic group reacts as masquerades attack Muslims in Osogbo The Commissioner revealed that the Command was not informed that both religious activities were to hold on the same day and venue. “Similar traditional religious activities have been held in Ede, Ikire and Apomu and the police had been adequately briefed about it so that we will provide security where needed. “When such briefing is made, we make the parties to sign agreements and undertakings to prevent clashes where necessary. “Police is aware that there had been clashes between these two groups in the past which should have made them to sign such agreement and the Police to put a perfect arrangement on ground.” While confirming that no arrests have been made so far, the Osun Police boss revealed that such will be made after a thorough investigation which would allow for allegations and counter-allegations from both sides, adding that since it has now involved murder, that justice will be served. Meanwhile, the Osogbo branch of the Egungun Worshippers Association has accused the Kamorudeen Islamic Society of Nigeria of deliberately destroying their properties in the wake of the Sunday altercations to frame the traditionalists. Speaking on the same programme, the Chairman of the Egungun Worshippers Association, Osogbo Youth Wing, Ifasola Esuleke revealed that video evidence from people living within the vicinity of the Kamorudeen Central Mosque, at Oluode Aranyin in Osogbo showed members of the Islamic group breaking their own windows and later on framed it on the traditionalists. Esuleke maintained that traditionalists in Osun remained the most peaceful in the state with good relationships with the Muslim and Christian communities except the Kamorudeen Islamic Society of Nigeria. We’ll thoroughly investigate masquerade attack on Muslims in Osogbo – Police While revealing that none of the traditional worshippers were armed on that day as they were all made to take an oath of orderly conduct before starting their religious activity, he accused the Islamic Society of being the first to start a fight, reporting to the police and making noise that they are the victims adding that the Oke-Baale Police Division has records of the activities of the Islamic group. Mallam Abdulganiy Saheed Ezra of the Coalition of Muslim Rights Activists of Nigeria, Osun State Chapter on his part insists that the Islamic Society demands nothing but justice. He accused Kayode Esuleke, the leader of the Egungun Worshippers Association and his followers of mischief and maintained that since the crime of murder has been committed, the group will not accept any pacification until the masterminds of the violence were arrested and prosecuted. DAILY POST reported that on Sunday, 27th June 2021, a violent clash had occurred between adherents of traditional religion and members of Kamorudeen Islamic Society of Nigeria at the Kamorudeen Central Mosque, Oluode Aranyin Compound, Osogbo, Osun State. The fracas led to the death of 75-year-old Moshood Salahudeen, the Baba Adini of the society and various degrees of injuries were inflicted on fourteen other members of the group. As at press time, the injured members of the society were receiving treatment at Faith Hospitals, Isale-Aro, Osogbo Central Hospital, UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital, Osogbo and Our Lady of Fatima Catholic Hospital, Jaleyemi, Osogbo. A member of the Egungun Worshippers Association, Osogbo was also reported to have sustained injuries in his stomach during the clash and he is being treated in a private hospital within Osogbo.