We all have our car dealership horror stories. Whether it’s the extremely high prices and the unrelenting salesmen or the car problems that start just months after the initial purchase, there’s always a tale to tell. That’s why we’ve decided to give you REASONS why we’re the best choice when it comes to buying and financing your vehicle. Let’s get into it… . We work within your budget and provide a financing option– There are two payment plans available. A) The total package: it entails a 50% financing opportunity. B) The Pay-as-you-go: is step by step that allow you to pay for the cost of Buying only and we will help you pay for the cost of Shipping and Transportation to Nigeria while you pay the balance on arrival of the car to Nigeria. . We provide clients with car history – A lot of car dealers tend to hide the car history of foreign used cars. This is mainly because they resell cars that have been flooded or have high mileage and damaged engines with no airbag. We don’t sell damaged or flooded cars, we’re willing to provide clients with the car history and live video before buying. . Types of car Title – Our report will also give you the history of the title and allow you to understand the types of titles of the car which have to do with clean title, salvage title and flood title. We will not hide anything for you when it come to the real title of the car you are about to buy from us. The car title will determine whether or not the car you are buying worth buying. This is the reasons why we are carrying your burden by financing this for you and make you spend less. . Top notch customer service – We have an amazing team, ready to respond to your questions. We are also willing to go extra mile just to give you a satisfactory experience. . Shipping and Clearing services – Have you already purchased your car but are yet to ship it into the country? No need to worry, we are at your service. At an affordable rate, we are willing to ship any amount of vehicles into the country, just make payment and leave the rest to us. . Doorstep delivery – We deliver you car to any location of your choice. All our fees are affordable and we are efficient in all our services and we have professional drivers and our relationship with the Nigeria custom services is cordial. Maybe you still have doubts or you have some questions about our services, please feel free to visit our website www.car1960.com or walk into our office to interact with our expert or call +234 704 917 3779 (available on whatsapp). You can also follow us on our social media platforms: Car1960