Recent directives issued to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) by Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State to return to their communities have begun to yield results. As at the time of filing this report, persons recently displaced from their homes in Bali council following the herders and farmers crisis here, have begun to return to their various communities enmass. Their decision to return to their ancestral homes was is reportedly the result of the directives issued by the governor to all the displaced person who fled their homes for safety during crises. Some displaced persons who bared their hearts to DAILY POST said they decided to return home following the governor’s earlier warning to traditional rulers who derive pleasure from grabbing lands belonging to IDPs. The governor had threatened sanctions on traditional rulers found to be involved in land grabbing, he had warned them to desist or be ready to face sanctions. Confirming the ongoing massive movement of the IDPs to their communities, the chairman of the Taraba State Tiv Traditional Leaders Council who also doubles as the Ter Bali, Zaki David Gbaa, said the displaced persons who are mostly of Tiv extraction “are now returning to their various communities in Bali. ” He said Sansani and Maihula are among other communities where displaced persons have returned to, following the measures put in place by the governor. ”All our people that were earlier displaced as a result of the crisis in Bali council have decided to come back to their communities. ” The Zaki explained that the governor has directed the Chairman of the Local Government, Prince Musa Mahmud to facilitate the return of all displaced persons in the local government to their homes. ”A security meeting was held in Bali and a resolution was reached for all displaced persons to return, a letter to that effect was sent to all the traditional rulers in the local government and our people are massively returning to their farms”. Applauding the efforts of the governor, for restoring the much-needed peace in the communities, he revealed that Governor Ishaku, “had also directed that all lands belonging to the displaced persons which were allegedly taken by some people be vacated for their rightful owners to take possession.” “This action of the governor will not only return peace to our communities but will as well avert impending hunger now that people are returning to their farms.” Some of the displaced persons told our correspondent that they are back to their ancestral homes and are preparing to go back to their farming profession. Do not tamper with farmlands belonging to IDPs – Gov Ishaku warns monarchs