Management of the Synagogue Church Of All Nation, SCOAN, has said that the unfortunate demise of the church’s founder, Temitope Balogun Joshua popularly known as TB Joshua will not stop the work of God from moving on. Recall that the renowned prophet died last week Saturday shortly after hosting a programme in the church were he performed his usual miracle in the name of Jesus Christ. The family had said the interment of the late prophet was scheduled to hold on July 9 at the church’s premises in Lagos Nigeria. T.B Joshua confirmed dead According to a member of the family who preferred to remain anonymous, decision followed a meeting by the deceased immediate family where they both agreed on burying the remains of the cleric at the church. Confirming the burial arrangement, SCOAN noted that the programme would commence on July 5 through to July 11 saying it would be broadcast live on Emmanuel TV. SCOAN made this known on Monday evening in a statement issued and posted on the deceased verified Facebook page. The statement reads, “Good Morning and Win Today! Dear SCOAN and Emmanuel TV family all over the world, we appreciate your continued prayers, love and support. “We know you are aware that our father in the Lord, Prophet TB Joshua, has been taken home to be with the Lord. We want to assure you that nothing will stop the work of God at The SCOAN from moving on. Prophet TB Joshua may be absent in the body but he is present in the spirit (Colossians 2:5). Indeed, God is even more powerful at distance! “We are currently preparing for the week-long service from Monday 5th to Sunday 11th July 2021 in honour of Prophet TB Joshua’s life and legacy. He will be laid to rest at The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations (SCOAN) in Lagos, Nigeria. Family gives date for T.B Joshua’s burial
“All services will be broadcast live on Emmanuel TV. The services which will be open to the public will be communicated to you at the appropriate time. “As our father in the Lord, Prophet TB Joshua says, “When we close our eyes to all things in this world, we shall open them in a world of glory.”