Nigerians on social media have reacted to the news of the sudden death of Prophet Temitope Joshua, a.k.a, T.B Joshua. While recounting how the preacher impacted their lives, others pointed to the fact that death is inevitable. The Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN) confirmed the death of their leader and founder on Sunday morning. Confirming the death on his Facebook page, TB Joshua’s Church said he died on Saturday, June 5th 2021. The Church also insinuated that God revealed the Prophet’s death to him. SCOAN Church confirms TB Joshua’s death, last words Reacting to the sudden news, some Nigerians took to Twitter to lament the passing of the prophet. Here are some reactions as obtained by DAILY POST: @mabdulaige, “Why some people think that some people are immortal? This is a belief taken too far and begin worshipping human because of deity attachment. May his soul rest in peace. A fake pastor will soon come out and said he prophesied it or saw it in his dream.” @officialrega, “A man that cared for the masses, a man that provided people’s daily needs, a man that will forever be remembered. Rest In Peace TB Joshua. June 12: Prophet TB Joshua declares fasting, prayer for Nigeria @DrOlufumilayo, “TB Joshua was someone who actually touched the lives of many poor people. Unlike many others, He was one pastor who actually reached out to poor people and always tried to help them. It’s so sad to read TB Joshua is dead. It’s actually quite sad. He was only 57.” @Moneybagtohbadt, “I am not a fan of Pastor TB Joshua though, but he was more than a philanthropist, he touched many lives: May God forgive his shortcomings and grant him eternal rest. Rest In Peace.” @Ayodejiarizona, “I remembered how the holy water at TB Joshua church worked for me as a young boy in some decade ago I won my first contract… THANKS FOR ALL YOU DO SIR Rest In Peace.” @Emekanwaguy, “TB Joshua is the Pastor who convinced me that not all Pentecostal pastors are after private jet. This man touched lives with his action and not mere words. I remember when he singlehandedly paid the NEPA bill of his senatorial constituency. Akoko & the Ondo will miss you.” @Elnino_haaz, “Dead is inevitable!!!
I see no sense when someone comes under this tweet to make fun or utter gibberish of his past. If you won’t pray for his soul to find solace in the Bossom of his Lord, at least be quiet.” @deluwunmi, “That they ought to live forever? Every mortal shall one day become immortal no matter how God or devil use them or let me say us.” @bella_insure, “This is really shocking!! Waking up on a Sunday to a news like this, heartbreaking!! May God rest his soul in absolute peace.” @iamzeezaga, “I couldn’t join my team mates in Dubai because my passport was seized and about to be destroyed at the Italian embassy, TB JOSHUA sent his Personal Assistant to make one call, I got my passport next day, baba bought another ticket for me, gave me money, used his excort to take me to the airport.” Viva_stanley, “My morning did not start as I expected because I was greeted with the information that Prophet TB Joshua has died. A man who has given more to Nigerians than the Nigerian government. Rest on man of God. Death is no respecter of anyone, let that sink in.”
Dare: T.B Joshua reacts to death of Pastor Adeboye’s son