The National President of Kulen Allah Cattle Rearers Association Of Nigeria (KACRAN), Khalil Mohammed Bello has urged the federal government to release funds meant for its programs on finding lasting solutions to farmer, herders crises across the nation. . In a statement, which was made available to newsmen on Wednesday, the President said KACRAN has played major role in stabilizing the crises of farmer and herders under the Buhari administration and have been adore runner in advising the government on the way forward. “We always observed and offer useful advice to federal and northern states governments on what is ought to be done to end the said solvable crises and we were doing so by thorough assessment of any governments programme and policy that we viewed has something to do with our postural occupation which directly affects the nation’s security. Be sincere, committed to end farmers, herders conflict in Nigeria – Fulani Herdsmen tell FG “Of recent interest, the federal governments widely publicised and highly applauded move to reclaim the encroached grazing reserves and blocked cattle routes across the northern states with a view to end the unnecessary clashes between cattle reares and farmers and our involvement has made that move a success,” he said According to him, the wanton movement of pastoralists to southern part of this country in search of animal pastures and water points which is mainly caused by the encroachment or total blockage of cattle routes has generated tension. “But KACRAN strong opinion have yielded positive results and averted crises. We, therefore, feel that the success of the programme holistically depends on how government, traditional rulers, farmers and herders are ready, sincere and totally committed towards the programmes success,” he added. He said government also needs to take drastic actions against anybody found wanting in sabotaging the government efforts in reclaiming the cattle routes and encroached grazing reserves. “The federal government also needs to work hand in hand and related closely with northern governments, traditional rulers who are custodians of most of the northern states free land.” The National President maintained that farmers must stop encroaching gazetted grazing reserves/ grazing areas and harrowing or totally blocking cattle routes and also herders must stop deliberate destruction of farmers’ farms. “In a situation where farms are destroyed the herders must pay compensation based on what they destroyed,” he added. Blame Gov Ishaku for insecurity in Taraba – Miyetti Allah