Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. There was palpable tension in Benue State, yesterday, following the assassination of the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Samuel Ortom on Security, Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Christopher Dega (retd). Gov Ortom who confirmed the murder, said the aide was killed in Jos, the Plateau State capital. 2. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of oxygen production plant in each of the 36 states of the country. The project would cost an estimated N5.6 billion. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed briefed State House correspondents on behalf of Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. 3. Applause and condemnations, yesterday, trailed Twitter’s decision to delete President Muhammadu Buhari’s threat tweet. While several Nigerians were jubilating over the deletion, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, accused Twitter of double standard. Lagos insecurity worsens as tension grips Ogba, Mile 12 over robberies, violence 4. The Chief of Army Staff, Maj.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya, on Wednesday said only the ground forces in the military cannot contain the enormous security challenges ravaging the country. The COAS stated this when he paid a courtesy visit to his counterpart at the Air Force, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, at the Nigerian Air Force Headquarters, Abuja. 5. The Onion Producers and Marketers Association of Nigeria (OPMAN) has announced its decision to suspend onion supply to the Southeast over insecurity. The National President of OPMAN, Aliyu Isah, made the announcement on Wednesday. 6. Alhaji Abubakar Alhassan, owner of Salihu Tanko Islamiyya School, Tegina town in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State, has said the government is yet to contact the school authorities over the abduction of 163 children and staff. 7. Two commercial banks and police stations were on Wednesday attacked by armed robbers in Apomu and Ikire towns in Osun state. The spokesperson for Osun State Police Command, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the attack. Fear grips Imo residents as military helicopters hover in Owerri 8. The Senate, on Wednesday, read for the third time and passed a Bill that seeks to end discrimination between First Degrees graduates from universities and Higher National Diploma (HND) holders from polytechnics in the country. 9. University of Ibadan on Wednesday announced physical resumption of academic activities for June 7, 2021. A notice by the Registrar, Mrs. Olubunmi Faluyi, said the institution will open for physical lectures and examination for the rest of first semester of the 2020/2021 academic season on June 7. 10. Scores of Boko Haram terrorists were killed in Borno State on Wednesday by troops of the Nigerian military. They were eliminated after a heavy gun fire with Nigerian troops in Damboa. Katsina: Southerners express fear over Northern Leaders’ reprisal threat