Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has requested for the immediate establishment of Ecclesiastical Courts in Nigeria. CAN’s chairman in Kano State, Reverend Adeolu Adeyemo made the request at the House of Representatives Public Hearings on the Review of the 1999 Constitution (As amended) taking place in Kano. 2. Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, lamented the deplorable state of Nigeria, saying the country now flows with bitterness and sadness, rather than milk and honey. The former president spoke at the unveiling of a book in his honour at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. 3. The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim has said that if the need arises, corps members could be mobilised for war since they were part of the national defence policy. 4. The Acting Director, Corporate Communications Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Osita Nwanisobi, yesterday said that the bank disbursed N253 billion to 548,345 beneficiaries as part of its responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. 5. The National Assembly has said it will be difficult to repeal the 1999 Constitution and enact a new law for Nigeria, noting that there are stringent conditions for achieving it. The Deputy President of the Senate and Chairman of the Senate’s Ad Hoc Committee on Constitution Review, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege said this on Thursday. 6. The Governing Board of the National Examinations Council (NECO) yesterday, approved the appointment of Mr. Ebikibina John Ogborodi as the Acting Registrar/Chief Executive of the Council. This was made known in a circular issued by the Director, Human Resource Management, Mr. Mustapha K. Abdul. 7. Personnel of the Operation Puff Adder of the Bayelsa State Police Command have arrested 10 persons during a secret meeting organised by the members of the IPOB in a private school in Okutukutu axis of Yenagoa, the state capital. The spokesman for Bayelsa State Police Command, SP Asinim Butswat confirmed the arrest. 8. Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje yesterday raised the alarm that bandits are grouping in forests in the state and have converted them to their hideouts. Ganduje spoke at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja on Thursday when he visited the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor. 9. A revered Islamic cleric, Sheik Ahmad Gumi, has advised the Federal Government to support splinter groups among bandits as a way to end mass abductions of school pupils. He spoke while reacting to the abduction of 200 Islamiyya schoolchildren during an interview yesterday. 10. Minister of information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Thursday, said Nigeria cannot be ranked as a failed state because of the ongoing security challenges. He stated this in response to a recent declaration by the Council on Foreign Affairs (CFA) in the U.S, saying Nigeria is at a point of no return with all the signs of a failed nation. Buhari writes Senate to confirm Yahaya as COAS