Barely one month after Governor, Ben Ayade’s defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC), a Cross River House of Rep member, Mr. Legor Idagbo, state lawmaker, Chris Agara, and many others have also decamped to the party. Speaking at the venue of the defection rally in Abuochiche, headquarters of Bekwarra Local Government Area on Saturday, Idagbo, who defected with over 30,000 of his supporters said the recent development marks the beginning of a new era in Cross River State politics. “It is only a wicked father that will not wish his son well. “If you are a good father, at some point your son will take over from you and when he takes over from you, you will not direct him on what to do,” he said. Ayade: Two govs, Senators, Reps members’ll defect from PDP to APC – Primate Ayodele He also urged his supporters not to let anyone deceive them “to wish away the food on the table which the governor, Sir Ben Ayade has been providing for the past six years. “Do not let anyone push you into fighting our governor and anyone who persuades you to, tell them to lead by example. “Our Governor has done well, he is our illustrious son of the North, let us stand by him and support him,” he added. Also, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Chris Agara moved with his over 25,000 supporters to the APC. Agara said his defection to the APC “is like wearing a new dress. And when you have a new dress well sewn with a design you like, you feel good. According to him, “moving from PDP to APC is indeed very special and historic and we have to show that firm support to my friend and brother.” Agara noted that his joining the APC is all about bringing value to the party. “They should expect me to be part of the unity of the party, they should expect me to be part of the progress of the party. “I am going to be part of moving the party forward and making sure the APC wins all elections. “When I defected at the ward level, I told them that we have come to add strength and make them the winning team. “I am sure that from now on, we will be a more formidable team because from the crowd you see here, APC is now the only party in Ikom Local Government Area,” he said. Also, at Efraiya, headquarters of Etung Local Government Area, Chris Njah Mbu-Ogar Ogar, a member representing Etung in the House of Assembly was received with his teeming supporters into the APC by Senator John Owan Enoh. Ogar thanked Owan-Enoh and the Etung APC for opening their doors to him and his supporters, promising to ensure that his membership and that of his followers will ensure that the party waxes stronger than before. Senator Orji Kalu speaks on Ayade’s defection to APC