The Muslim Rights Concern, MURIC, on Monday assured that it would not oppose a Christian president in Nigeria. MURIC, an Islamic human rights organisation, made the remark while clarifying its call for the Southwest to produce a Muslim presidential candidate in 2023. The Islamic group had said 2023 was the right time for the Southwest to produce a Muslim presidential candidate. The group said its demand is hinged on the condition that political parties zone the presidency to the South West. A statement signed by the body’s Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola and forwarded to DAILY POST, said it would not oppose a Christian presidential candidate if the position is zoned to any other zone. Ranching: Anyone against Southern Govs’ resolve has hidden agenda – Ortom Stressing that its remark was misunderstood, MURIC explained that it would not undermine a Christian president if he respects the rights of Muslims across the country. The statement reads: “Some stakeholders have misunderstood our statement concerning our demand for a Yoruba Muslim president come 2023. They wrongly assume that we do not want a Christian president at all. That is not correct. We have therefore seen the need for us to clarify our statement. “Our true position is this. We want a Yoruba Muslim to be the next president if the presidency is zoned to the region by political parties. So there is a provision, and the kekeywords ‘if’. MURIC is not a fanatical group. We do not have a problem with a Christian president. This is a democracy and Nigeria is a multi-religious nation. So we are not opposed to a Christian emerging as president at any time so long as he respects the rights of Muslims.” Oduduwa Republic: Nothing can stop Yoruba from breaking out of Nigeria – Pastor Giwa MURIC, however, lamented that Christians dominate the leadership sphere in the Southwest. The body lamented that Christians dominate the civil service and education sector while Muslims enjoy the majority among artisans in the Southwest. “Our grouse is with the system in the South West. It is an open secret that Christians dominate the education sector in the South West. “That is why the civil service is fully in the hands of the Christians while the Muslims are an overwhelming majority among the artisans and traders in Yorubaland,” the statement added. Gov Umahi gives reason people of S/East support ESN, hits back at Malami