The Police Command in Enugu State, on Tuesday, said it has arrested eight suspects for their alleged involvement in kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism and unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. The command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, said this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Enugu. Ndukwe said that the command recovered five firearms, including an AK-47 rifle, 10 live cartridges and one empty shell of 7.62mm calibre of ammunition. Other items recovered, he said, included: two motor vehicles, two tricycles, six motorcycles, one dagger, one machete and some quantity of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. The police spokesman said that the feat was part of the actualisation of the mandates of Operation Restore Peace in the state. Police nab four suspects for unlawful possession of firearms in Kogi He said that on June 13, operatives attached to Anti-Cultism Squad arrested a 27-year-old suspect after information alleging that a group of armed cultists were breaching public peace at Obofia community in Nkanu West Local Government Area. According to him, upon interrogation, the suspect confessed to being a member of Vikings confraternity and that the cult group was having a meeting in the area before police operatives busted them. “Recovered after preliminary investigation were two locally-made double-barrelled pistols, seven live cartridges, one black-coloured Toyota Camry and one black-coloured Honda Accord, with registration numbers: UWN 394 GU and BDG 14 EG. “Others are two yellow-coloured tricycles, with registration number ENU 518 WN and JRV 228 VD respectively; six motorcycles of different makes, empty bottles of Squadron drink and some quantity of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp,’’ he said. Ndukwe also said that the operatives attached to Oji-River Police Division, in synergy with men of Neighbourhood Watch, recovered one AK-47 rifle with breech number: 038244 without magazine. He said that the AK-47 rifle was recovered in a thick bush at Ude village in Ugwuoba community of Oji-River Local Government Area on June 8 at 5 pm. “The recovery is sequel to operatives storming the thicket on receipt of information, alleging that a group of armed hoodlums were sighted perfecting plans to carry out robbery operations,’’ he said. The police spokesman noted that on June 6, at about 5:30 am., operatives attached to Anti-Cultism Squad arrested three suspects, all of Ugwuagor Abakpa-Nike, Enugu. “Upon interrogation, the suspects, who confessed to being members of Black Axe confraternity, surrendered one cut-to-size locally-made single-barrelled gun loaded with one live cartridge. “The commissioner urged the operatives to remain resolute and resilient, even as the command unwaveringly work towards maximally actualising mandates of Operation Restore Peace, as ordered by the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Baba Usman,’’ he said. Police arrest 10 kidnappers, recover firearms, ammunition in Enugu