The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) will today, Wednesday, hold a primary election to elect its candidate for the forthcoming governorship election in Anambra State. The election is expected to hold at the Alex Ekwueme Square in Awka, the State capital. Four aspirants of the party who will be slugging it out in today’s primary election are: former Central Bank Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, a lawyer, Barr Damian Okolo and two lawmakers, Hon ThankGod Ibe and Hon Okwudili Nwankwo. Anambra: APGA youths protest alleged plan to impose guber candidate on party
Meanwhile, DAILY POST gathered that there are plans by the party to crown Prof. Soludo as its candidate, and that the Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano has set motion in place to ensure that other aspirants support Soludo to emerge both as candidate and Governor of the State. A source said Obiano had been working to ensure that the disqualified aspirants of the party withdrew their petitions and also support Soludo. The source said, “Did you not see that Akachukwu Nwankpo who was disqualified by the party has already withdrawn his petition and also pledged support for Soludo?” Confirming this, a chieftain of the party and member of the party’s Board of Trustees, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka told DAILY POST on telephone that the delegates of the party, the leaders of the party, including the Governor, are more favourable to Soludo’s candidature. He said: “Anambra needs a governor that is creative, intelligent and who can handle the task of governance. The leaders of the party, our governor and all the delegates will support Soludo in today’s (Wednesday) election. “Let me tell you, Soludo is the chairman of the Anambra 50 years development plan. What that means is that he already has the development plan of Anambra State for the next 50 years. You cannot leave that kind of person to go and elect another person. “We will support Soludo to win the primary election of our party, and we will support him to win the governorship seat of Anambra State. At a time like this, every society needs a creative person as leader.” Anambra election: PDP, APGA give APC advantage as crisis hits parties