A pro-democracy and rights group, Foundation for Environmental Rights, Advocacy and Development (FENRAD), has expressed worry over the outbreak of violent unrest and civil disturbances in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State between community members and the military formation stationed in the area. The group, in a statement signed by Nelson Nnanna-Nwafor, its Executive Director, lamented that community members and indigenes are in fear as soldiers now invade their homes and privacy, halting business and farming activities. FENRAD further expressed worries over the alleged silence of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu who doubles as the chief security officer and custodian of the state. It urged Governor Ikpeazu to, as a matter of urgency, take immediate action by addressing this issue before it escalates to unmitigable disaster. Insecurity: Buhari govt has failed – FENRAD According to the group, “the continued silence on the part of the state government under the leadership of Ikpeazu, to a large extent, is inopportune and far from ideal at a time like this. “The continual militarization and subsequent billeting of Ohafia has culminated in breaches that if not well managed will fuel the flame of insecurity which in recent times has created disaster in the entire Southeast”. It also reacted to the recent statement by the state government on the planned protest by groups claiming to be civil society organizations in the state to be held Monday,14th June 2021 at Umuahia and Aba. DAILY POST reports that the Abia State Government had in a statement issued by the Secretary to State Government, Barr Chris Ezem, urged the organisers of the protest to suspend the planned demonstration owing to the current insecurity in the areas. According to the statement, the protest may not be peaceful as the organizers failed to contact the state’s police command for protection. But, FENRAD advocated for government’s periodic dialogue with the registered and recognized civil society organization in the state to keep them abreast of the government programme and activities and get an updated list of working CSOs not those masquerading. “It is important that the Government will create a channel of interface to be a mechanism for engagement with the civil society organization. Issues of governance, security and the Running of the State are very important for appraisal to enable the Government to understand the Area they are doing well or not,” it said. “This is very important with the current economic trend and insecurity across the country. The civil society organizations constituency is a very veritable platform which will help disseminate Government Activities and be constructive in criticism if carried along. This initiative will be a welcome Development and strengthened community interface and knowledge of the Government programmes and activities”. Attack on security formations: Anarchy looming in southeast region – Rights group Continuing, FENRAD further added, “Civil society organizations are Respected all over the world for their contributions in agenda setting and setting mechanism for probity, transparency and accountability to hold Government. The genuine organization cannot fold their hands and see miscreants desecrate the WORD Civil society for their self-interest and for their belly. “The Civil society organizations in the State have an organized structure with different organizations working on their thematic areas of specialization. “With the increasing trend of proliferation of civil society organization by selfish individuals. It has become pertinent for stock taking and Data gathering of genuine organization and create a mechanism for Government periodic interface and dialogue with the organization on the Government programme and Activities and create a Rapid Response channel to reach the larger group in the cases of emergency and other emerging state issues, “the foundation concluded.