Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Thursday, refuted reports of him saying the Federal Government would crush the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB. Osinbajo described the report alleging that the Federal Executive Council must “crush” any group “by fire by thunder” as false. The Vice President made the clarification through his spokesman, Laolu Akande. Akande, who was featured on the weekly FRCN network radio show “Have Your Say,” on Thursday said there was never a time Osinbajo said the Federal Executive Council must “crush” any group with “by fire by thunder.” He also said it’s fake news that the Vice President asked Nigerians to pray for any group of people perpetuating violence instead of meting out justice to them. He said these are “fake news and deliberate deployment of falsehood. The VP’S voice on matters of justice in and out of government is always loud and clear.” Herdsmen flee Delta community as thunder strike kills 12 cows According to him, the Vice President never used that kind of language at all, adding that such comments attributed to the vice president in that regard should be ignored. He said: “For quite a long time, there has been deliberate deployment of falsehood against the vice president. “I have seen, a number of times they put out stuff on WhatsApp, Facebook that says the vice president has said something to attack a particular group in the South-East, and that this and that is what he said about the farmers-herders conflict, all of it untrue. “What the vice president said about our people in the South East is that they are people of industry, and that though there may be issues from different parts of the country, the whole essence of a union is to find very transparent, open ways to resolve the differences. “And that he knows that people and leaders across the country, whether from the South-East, South-South, South-West, North-East, North Central, all support the unity of this country.” KadunaGovt confirms killing of armed bandits by ‘Thunder Strike’