The factional chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Anambra State , Mr Chukwudi Umeaba who was installed by an Abuja High court has annulled the election of three-man Adhoc delegates held by the party. Umeaba in a press conference he addressed on Saturday announced the cancellation of the recently held ward congresses, saying a new date for a fresh election would be announced. Umeaba told journalists that based on his reinstatement, he reserves the powers to make decisions. ” I, Hon Chukwudi Umeaba, the acting chairman caretaker committee of PDP, Anambra State working in concert with the terms of reference and the powers of my office will make pronouncements. Yobe PDP holds congress, elects executives, after one year without officials “I hereby suspend the ward congress of 9th June to elect a three-man Adhoc committee for the governorship primary. “I will contact the NEC of our great party to give me a new date for the ward congresses that will elect the three-man Adhoc committee for the governorship primary.” He urged the party members to keep calm and look forward to new developments that his leadership will out to ensure the growth of the party in the state. He insisted that the primary election will go on as planned, and will not be truncated by the change in leadership. Meanwhile, the emergence of a new chairman of the party in the state has polarised the party, leaving many of its members switching camp to the faction of the new leadership. A chieftain of the party, Mr Samuel Anyakorah who was at the press conference described the Umeaba-led party as the authentic leadership of the party, having been unjustly removed in 2017. “I was the one who dragged the party to court because of that unjust act. We wrote to the then national vice chairman of Southeast, Mr Austin Umahi and even to His Excellency Uche Secondus, but they ignored us. “That was why went to court, and thank God today, the authentic leadership of the party has been restored. You can see how happy everybody is. We hope that the party will move on now.” South West congress will be transparent and credible – PDP