The Independent Petroleum Marketers of Nigeria (IPMAN) has vowed to intensify the fight against illegal oil theft and oil tankers blocking of roads by oil tankers in the South-South/South-East region of the country. IPMAN President, Chinedu Okoronkwo, noted that IPMAN will not rest on its oars to ensure it contributes to the drop in the percentage of crude oil theft. In a statement signed and issued to DAILY POST, by the President after the formal inauguration and presentation of the letter to the IPMAN Coordinator in Anambra State, Sunday Chukwuemeka, said IPMAN will no longer tolerate the indiscriminate use of oil tankers to block roads along the states of the South East. He said the South-South/South-East chapters led by Anambra and Bayelsa chapters have done well in the battle against oil theft. “Recall that President Buhari and the NNPC agreed that we have assisted in reducing the cases of oil theft and vandalism to 35 percent. We want to tell all our chapters that we are behind them and we will not relent,” he said IPMAN makes clarification on petroleum marketers shutting fuel stations nationwide He warned that those involved in the illegal blockage of roads with Petroleum tankers would be dealt with, ”Petroleum marketers will not be allowed to engage in illegal activities. The roads should be cleared.” Also speaking, the Chairman of the Bayelsa Chapter of IPMAN, Bello Bina, said though the task of confronting illegal activities of pipeline vandals and oil theft is tedious, the members of IPMAN have resolved to confront the oil thieves head-on. Earlier, the newly appointed Chairman of the Anambra Chapter of IPMAN, Sunday Chukwuemeka, called on major stakeholders including the Nigerian Police, Joint Military Task Force and members to assist IPMAN in actualising the mandate trusted upon it by President Muhammadu Buhari. He also warned that anyone caught engaging in unwholesome activities contrary to the interest of the Nation’s oil and gas sector would be arrested.