Commissioners, Special Advisers, Assistants and other political appointees have abandoned their offices in Cross River State DAILY POST Correspondent went round various offices and observed that many offices of the top appointees were empty. Some staff working with some of the appointees said their bosses said they cannot work under Gov Ayade/APC-led government. “My bosses had said openly that they cannot work under Gov Ayade-led APC government, hence they have to abandoned their offices. Cross River: Ayade sacks 4 Commissioners, other officials
Most of those who defected with him said, they will come back to PDP during the elections. “It’s only that they have nothing doing for now, hence they went with him. When the chip is down, they will decide. “Gov Ayade will be shocked because more people will abandon him. He has no structure on ground,” they claimed. Meanwhile, the Secretary of the State Primary Management Board, Hon Wilfred Ina has resigned,. He said, “As an ethical politician and a firm member of the PDP with a clear understanding of the party’s core vision and mission for our dear country and who has enjoyed several privileges under the party, I cannot afford to jump boat to another party which ideologies do not align with and which views are widely considered by Nigerians as not being democratic and innovative enough to move our country to her expected destination. “However, having the opportunity to serve in the Board has helped broadened my experience in governance and will be readily available to more opportunities that can help us build a better Cross River State in the future. “I sincerely thank Your Excellency for the wonderful opportunity to serve and extend my warmest regards,” he stated Another commissioner that dumped the government was Commissioner for Education and Commissioner for Water Resources respectively, Hon. Obol Godwin Ettah (Ph.D) “It was indeed a great pleasure working with you, given your high intellectual ability to inspire a rising generation. “My prayers for you is that God grants you success in all your future endeavours. Please accept my best regards.” However, Christian Ita, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the Governor in a statement said, the Governor accepted their resignations. He listed Goddy Etta-Commissioner for Water Resources, Ntufam Gabe Odu Orji- Commissioner for Infrastructure and Hon. Moses Onoh- Special Adviser, Budget ass those who left the government. “His Excellency thanks them for their services to the state and wishes them well in their future endeavor, ” he stated. Imo Governor sacks SAs, SSAs, moves to appoint new ones