A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Akinlayo Kolawole, has expressed confidence that the party would rule beyond 2022 in the state. He, however, urged the party, both at the state and the centre, to devise ingenious strategy of communication to Nigerians. The former House of Representatives aspirant for the Ekiti North Federal Constituency II in the 2019 general election, while speaking with newsmen in Ado Ekiti, lamented that the APC-led Federal Government was yet to get a commensurate acknowledgement and appreciation for its numerous development strides . The Ikosu- Ekiti-born politician, therefore, urged President Buhari to, as matter of urgency decentralize his communication channels in order to reach the targeted audience. According to Kolawole, “Lack of proper communication. I always tell my friends that the Buhari-led government is doing a lot, If we want to be sincere with ourselves. But I am not sure whether the government is using the right approach to communicate to the right people about its policies and programmes. “Let them decentralize the communication channel, instead of allowing two or three people to be speaking for government at all times. “You have the Special Adviser, the Senior Special Assistant and the Minister of Communication. What I will advise is that, let each region begin to showcase the project in their domain. Let the people see and feel it. When you confront the people with empirical evidences about the projects executed in their areas, they can also ask questions,” Kolawole admonished. He challenged Buhari’s information managers to free themselves from their alleged comfort zones and devise proper channels of reaching out to the people that matter in the society and those at the grassroots about the government activities . His words, “You are all around and saw what happened. I was prevailed upon by the party leadership to step down for the current occupant of the position. And as a loyal party man, I obliged the directive from my party. But let me tell you that my ambition is alive and kicking. . “Although, we have commenced campaign now because we have a big task ahead and that is the 2022 Governorship Election. What is paramount now is to start the mobilisation for the APC to rule beyond 2022 in Ekiti. And I think the party has every reason to go beyond 2022 because our leader and governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has made the job easier for us with his impressive performances in all the sectors of our economy. And you know the National Assembly elections will come after that.”