The BET Awards, which honours Black excellence in entertainment and sports, was held on Sunday night with the theme “Year of the Black Woman.” The show was hosted by award-winning actress Taraji P. Henson from the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, where a live audience attended for the first time since the coronavirus pandemic began. DAILY POST reported that award winning Nigerian musician, Burna Boy who was nominated alongside Wizkid won the best International act on the recently concluded BET awards. Veteran rapper and actress, Queen Latifah received this year’s Lifetime Achievement Award for her “amazing success” throughout her decades-long career. Rapper Megan Thee Stallion was tied with DaBaby for having the most nominations of the night and took home awards for “Best Female Hip Hop Artist,” “Best Collaboration,” “Viewer’s Choice” and “Video of the Year.” Rap legend DMX, who died from a heart attack earlier this year, was honored at the ceremony with a special tribute performance from Busta Rhymes, Method Man, Swizz Beatz, and Michael K. Williams. Also, Late Chadwick Boseman who died after a long battle with cancer won the award for ‘Best Actor.’ See full list of winners below: Album of the Year “Heaux Tales” Jazmine Sullivan Best Female R&B / Pop Artist H.E.R Best Male R&B / Pop Artist Chris Brown Best Group Bruno Mars, Anderson .Paak and Silk Sonic Best Collaboration “WAP” Cardi B ft. Megan Thee Stallion Best Male Hip Hop Artist Lil Baby Best Female Hip Hop Artist Megan Thee Stallion Video of the Year “WAP” Cardi B ft. Megan Thee Stallion Video Director of the Year Bruno Mars & Florent Déchard Best New Artist Giveon BET Her Award “Good Days” Sza Best International Act Burna Boy, Nigeria Viewer’s Choice Award “Savage (Remix)” Megan Thee Stallion ft. Beyoncé Best Movie “Judas and the Black Messiah” Best Actress Andra Day Best Actor Chadwick Boseman Youngsters Award: Marsai Martin Sportswoman of the Year Award: Naomi Osaka Sportsman of the Year Award: Lebron James Viewer’s Choice: Best New International Act Bree Runway, United Kingdom