Youth leaders of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 21 Local Government Areas of Anambra State on Friday protested an alleged plan to hand the party’s governorship ticket to a chosen aspirant. The youth leaders who marched to the state party secretariat in their numbers carried placards, warning the leadership of the party against the imposition of candidates for the forthcoming election. Mr Michael Izunna who led scores of the protesting youths to the party secretariat cautioned the party to tread carefully in choosing a governorship candidate to avoid implosion in the party. “We are here to call for a free and fair primary election in our party. We have the interest of the party at heart, that is why we are here to plead with the party to do the right thing. APGA, Abia APC send messages, preach forgiveness “We have heard that there are plans to make members of United Anambra Youth Assembly (U-AYA) and United Anambra Women Assembly (U-AWA) as delegates. We strongly oppose this and call for a normal primary election. “We are here because we love the party. We will be ready to defend APGA with our blood anywhere, and that makes us stakeholders in the party. We will not stay and watch our party do the wrong thing. “The message we are bringing to the leadership of the party today is that it must carry the youths along as far as the process leading to the election is concerned, again is that the primary election must be free and fair. Let every aspirant must go to the election and let the delegates be free to elect their candidate,” he said. A source said the protest march was not unconnected with alleged plans by the leadership of the party to favour members of a political group, U-AYA and U-AWA as delegates in the forthcoming primary of the party. NIN will ensure credible citizen-database – NCC U-AYA has been at the forefront clamouring for the party to hand former CBN governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo its ticket for the November 2021 governorship election in Anambra State. State youth leader of the party, Mr Magnus Eziokwu who received the protesters on behalf of the chairman of the party assured that the process would be fair. “Our party is known for free and fair primary elections. Our leaders, both national and state are people whose love for the youths have been attested to. “We thank you for coming to register your protest, and I want to assure you that we all are concerned about a free and fair primary election in the party, and we will spare nothing to achieve that.” 2023: We’are committed towards free, fair election – Buhari