Yomi Fabiyi, a Nollywood actor, has claimed that the 14-year-old girl alleged to have been sexually molested by his colleague, Olanrewaju James, popularly known as Baba Ijesha, said he did not defile her. Recall that on Wednesday Baba Ijesha, who was arraigned on a four-count charge of sexual assault, sexual assault by penetration, attempted rape and indecent treatment of a child, pleaded not guilty to the crime. But Fabiyi in a statement on his Instagram page said the police have no evidence against Baba Ijesha. He explained that the police said that the victim insisted that she was not defiled by the actor at any time. Fabiyi, further, called for the prosecution of the adults who made arrangements for Baba Ijesha to be caught on camera. Baba Ijesha disgraced Yoruba movie industry – Iyabo Ojo slams Yomi Fabiyi ”Part of my concerns and why the law must act unbiased. Fighting for the rights of the child means getting justice against all abuses and assaults done against her innocence and her wish. ”Have you asked yourself, what if in the process of the set up there was violence, door locked behind and aside being raped, the girl was killed, will ALL THE ADULTS INVOLVED be let go. ”How can the law be BLIND to that and set a horrible precedent for several innocent children in our society? ”Where are the SOCIAL SERVICES in the state, why is the DPP advice silent on all the crimes involved in the entire episodes and all that done against the child, why the silence on all that?” ”The police took a stand that they cannot charge the suspect with a crime that they have no evidence especially when the girl said repeatedly Baba Ijesha never had sex with her. ”Baba Ijesha never had sex with her at any time. And suddenly someone from Lagos DPP entered the court and told the judge that they have filed the case at a High Court, Magistrate hands off. ”I am not fighting the Lagos government but I will stand by what is right and Baba Ijesha will eventually get his right.” he added. Yomi Fabiyi leads protest, calls for Baba Ijesha’s bail