Popular Nigerian comedian, Debo Adebayo, popularly known as Mr Macaroni, has waded into the controversy surrounding Baba’s Ijesha rape saga and blacklisting of actresses Iyabo Ojo and Nkechi Blessing. DAILY POST had reported that the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), in its notice suspending Iyabo Ojo, Nkechi Blessing, accused the actresses of “reckless accusations, abuses and embarrassment of our sector”. This became necessary following their action on social media in relation to the rape case involving Baba Ijesha. The TAMPAN BoT, however clarified that its action against Iyabo Ojo does not mean it supports acts of criminal behaviour in whatever guise. Their decision has since been met with criticisms and knocks from celebrities as well as the parties affected. Macaroni weighing into the matter expressed disappointment in TAMPAN’s action especially at a time when Baba Ijesha has been granted bail. According to him, a press conference should have been held at the beginning of the case when accusations were brought up against Baba Ijesha. Recall the thespian was granted bail in sum of N2million and two sureties by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of the Ikeja Special Offences Court . Macaroni on his Twitter page wrote, “TAMPAN suspends Iyabo Ojo. Not only did they suspend her, there was a full press conference stating a million and one things she did wrong. Interesting how this is happening only after Baba Ijesha was granted bail. Really interesting. “ A press conference should have been held at the beginning of the whole thing, letting the public know TAMPAN’S stand on Baba Ijesha and the matters arising. If Iyabo Ojo went too far, so did Yomi Fabiyi. If we can demand accountability from the government, what about ourselves? Macaroni described the matter as complicated and sad, hoping for the sake of truth and justice, a proper investigation is done and everyone found guilty be held accountable for their actions. He urged TAMPAN to be fair in its fight for human rights, adding that Yomi Fabiyi should not be exempted from disciplinary action. “This is very embarrassing to say the least. If you say you are fighting for human rights, then do it with fairness and integrity. Not making fun of people’s pain and reality and expecting others not to react. “No one even cares about the little girl that was molested. This case has turned to a battle of Ego. Yomi Fabiyi gaslighted the whole situation and even turned it into a fundraising party. Telling people to donate money for the movie ‘Oko Iyabo’. But somehow, he is the saint. “Another Elder came out and said that the issue of molestation is not such a big deal. That after all, no successful actress can make bold to say that men in the industry haven’t had their way with her. And we don’t think this is a serious issue?” Macaroni questioned.