Suspected Fulani Herdsmen on Sunday attacked two brothers at Ikot Atasung, Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State killing one and leaving the other severely injured. A source who pleaded anonymity told our correspondent that the herders had a clash with the brothers after they warned them to take their cattle out of the farmland. The source said the brothers complained that the cattle were destroying crops in the area and told the herders to take their cattle to the bush for grazing. The herdsmen according to the source were infuriated with the warning and attacked the siblings with a matchet, cutting them fatally, one of them died at the spot while the other who is severely injured is still battling for his life in a hospital at Ikot Ekpene. The incident, according to sources, happened around Community Secondary Commercial School, Ikot Atasung/Ikot Obong Otoro, popularly called Urua Obo, off Umuahia road in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area. Akwa Ibom: JTF arrests 10 over murder of police officers, recover vehicles, ammunition Meanwhile, the Ikot Ekpene Local Government Chairman, Mr. Unyime Etim had admitted that herdsmen invaded the community. Narrating the incident the local government boss said, “The victims were hunters who usually set their traps in the bush and on getting to check their trap around 3am, they met with the herdsmen who invaded their farms with cows. “I learned that while they persuaded the herders to leave, the herders cut one of them by the armpit and the back, and he died on the spot. “I am told the other brother is in critical condition but I saw the corpse of the one killed by the herders. “I went to the place with the police, leader of Hausa/Fulani community and they have promised to fish out the culprits who they said have left the area. “For now I cannot tell what happened till one of the victims is resuscitated and we can hear from him. The youths wanted to revenge but I needed to calm them.” However, the Police Spokesperson in Akwa Ibom, SP Odiko Macdon confirmed the incident describing it as unfortunate. Odiko who said the perpetrators would be fished out and brought to book said the Commissioner, CP Andrew Amiengheme has ordered a full investigation into the matter. He said “We have received that report, it is an unfortunate one. The CP has ordered a discreet investigation into the incident with the aim of apprehending the perpetrators of the act. “And I want to believe that in no distance time we will have an update on the incident because those who have committed the act must be brought to book.”