Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), on Tuesday described Southeast governors as hypocrites. Kanu made the remark while stressing that the governors cannot decide the faith of Igbos with regards to Biafra. He stated this while reacting to the decision of the governors to disown IPOB. Recall that five governors had stated that IPOB was not speaking for Igbos or the region. However, speaking through the spokesman of IPOB, Emma Powerful, Kanu said the governors have lost the support of the Southeast. The statement signed by Powerful reads: “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has been drawn to the purported disowning and condemnation of IPOB and the Eastern Security Network, ESN, by the frustrated South East Governors and few self-centered political leaders in the region. We are not, however, surprised because they were the same people who proscribed us before the federal government tagged us terrorists. “The purported statement by these shameless political generals without foot soldiers has only further exposed them as Caliphate boot-leakers. They know too well that they have since lost grip and control of the masses, hence, their desperation to regain the trust of their paymasters. The only publicly disowned IPOB thinking that doing so will make them regain the trust and favour of the Caliphate. “The governors, Ohaneze Ndigbo and the handful of traitors masquerading as the Igbo political elite should wake up to the realities that they have since lost the confidence of the people. We understand the worry of these Efulefus: They are rattled by the unflinching support and loyalty of the masses to IPOB. “It’s only unfortunate, shameful and disgraceful that the so-called Igbo leaders will be quick to disown and betray their own in their quest to appease their slave masters. The South East Governors again, in 2017 they sat together in Enugu State to proscribe IPOB and the federal government declared them terrorists with the support of South East Governors while they are not. To their shame, how many times have their Northern counterparts disowned the bloody terrorists, bandits and Fulani herdsmen rampaging the country? You have lost sense of reality – Ohanaeze youths blast Southeast Govs for disowning IPOB
“So, the South East self-acclaimed Leaders are quick to disown IPOB and ESN, yet they are calling us to accept the calls for peaceful negotiations? What hypocrisy! “We want to unequivocally declare again, that the five South East governors and the few self-appointed Igbo elite, are too infinitesimal to speak for the millions of Biafrans who are tired of being held hostage in this contraption called Nigeria. They don’t even command the loyalty of all their appointees let alone the egalitarian Igbo nation that never gave them the stolen mandate they parade. “Anybody listening to these traitors does so to his peril. There is no negotiation on the people’s resolve to restore Biafra where human dignity will be respected.”