The Ekiti State Government has expressed readiness to carry out a proper boundary demarcation between Orun Ekiti and Igbemo Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government to ensure lasting peace between the two towns. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, who disclosed this on Tuesday when he received community leaders from Orun Ekiti in his office said the state government always craves peace among Ekiti communities to facilitate development. A statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, indicated that the delegation was led by the Olorun of Orun Ekiti, Oba Joshua Oluwasola Osalusi, his traditional cabinet and prominent indigenes of the town under the aegis of Orun Development Association. The delegation used the forum to table some requests before the government which include approval to rebuild a bus stop shed burnt down during a boundary dispute with Igbemo, the appointment of indigenes to political offices and assistance to complete the new Olorun’s palace. Responding to the requests presented by Justice Cornelius Akintayo (retd.) who praised the government for assistance to the community, the Deputy Governor promised to draw the attention of Governor Kayode Fayemi to the fact that no indigene of the community is presently on political appointment in the present administration. Egbeyemi disclosed that officials of the State Boundary Commission would soon visit the disputed boundary between Orun and Igbemo to ensure a well-demarcated boundary to prevent a reoccurrence of the clash that was witnessed two years ago. He explained that the boundary demarcation exercise would be necessary before any step is taken to rebuild the bus stop shed burnt down during the last crisis after grey areas on the boundary would have been resolved. While urging the two towns to cooperate with the Boundary Commission officials for a hitch-free exercise, Egbeyemi urged the indigenes to maintain peace and cooperate with the government on issues of peace and development. “Cooperate with boundary officials when they come to your town to take steps on it and I want to assure you that they will carry out a proper boundary adjustment. “On the issue of no appointment for your Orun indigenes, we will look into it. I will personally present your case to Mr. Governor and I will ask him to do something about it. “I want to advise you that you write a letter to Mr. Governor and copy me on the issue of completion of the palace. Write a letter to Ekiti State Community Development Agency (EKSCDA) which will assist if the community can give 10 per cent of the sum and the agency will assist you with the remaining 90 per cent.” Speaking earlier, Justice Akintayo hailed the first Fayemi administration for giving the town autonomy which he said had given the people a sense of identity and an opportunity to develop at its own pace. He commended the Deputy Governor for intervening in the land crisis that erupted in 2019 which led to the burning down of the bus stop facility which he said was built by the late Odopetu of Orun, Chief Noah Saliu. “The man is dead now and we want to rebuild the bus stop shed and we are officially seeking your approval to rebuild it to immortalise the deceased and for the benefit of our people,” Akintayo said. The retired judge explained that the new palace building had reached the roofing stage and the funds realised from the community’s day celebration are inadequate to complete it in record time. He urged the state government not to forget the town in other development projects, pledging the continued support of the locals to the Fayemi administration.