Oyo State chapter of Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) has condemned the action of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State over his appearance at the recent June 12 protest in Ibadan. DAILY POST reports that some youths and other angry Nigerians had on Saturday protested against bad governance and insecurity in Ibadan. Makinde also joined the protesters to address them. SPN said that Makinde’s appearance at the protest was mischievous. The party noted that Makinde was not genuinely part of the protest. The party in a statement signed by its Secretary, Comrade Ayodeji Adigun commended the protesters on their determination to carry on with the protest despite what the party described as “distraction created by the Governor.” SPN condemns, calls for arrest of cop who allegedly shot Sowore The party in the statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday, described as mischievous and deceptive the sudden appearance of Makinde and his aides at the protest organised by hundreds of youths and workers. The party said that it was unfortunate that Makinde had continued to remain indifferent to the plight of thousands of youths who are often used as casual workers under a terribly precarious and slavery working conditions in some private companies in the State. The party noted that the appearance of the Governor was meant to create a false impression that the PDP-led government in the State is not a part of the failure over insecurity and economic crisis that Nigeria is witnessing. “It is our belief in SPN that the Governor’s appearance at the protest was never genuine or conceived to identify with the protest and its demands as insinuated in some media reports. “Rather it was meant to create a false impression that the PDP-led government in the state, premised on the same anti-poor profit first philosophy and agenda as Buhari/APC -led federal government is not a part of the failure over insecurity and economic crisis that were the basis of the protest. “It was also a game plan to detract from the objective of the protest by simply using money to toy with the beggarly economic condition of the protesting workers and youths. “Unfortunately, the dubious game plan was obviously affirmed by the open fight that broke out among some protesters while struggling to share the needless and unsolicited money given by the Governor. “SPN frown against the usual traditional of the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government of using money to take advantage of the condition of misery faced by most youths in the state. “No wonder the government has continued to remain indifferent to the plight of thousands of youths who are often used as casual workers under a terribly precarious and slavery working conditions across some private companies in Oyo State like SUMAL FOOD LIMITED, NIGERIA EAGLES FLOUR MILLS LIMITED, ZARTECH FOOD LIMITED among others. “This is besides the cost of education which continues to be unavoidable for many youths in the State despite the recently announced 25% cosmetic reduction of unstipulated amount of payable fees in certain Institutions like LAUTECH. Therefore, as far as we are concerned in SPN such a government cannot be said to be pro- youths in anyway,” he stated. Return all salaries, allowances – SPN tells Oyo ex-caretaker committee members