The ancient town of Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, was taken over by flood after a heavy downpour that lasted several hours between Sunday and Monday. DAILY POST reports that some residents of the Olorunsogo and Ayesan areas of the city had their valuables destroyed. Some major streets were covered with water, submerging vehicles and other belongings. As of Monday, many were yet to rid their rooms of water, leaving them with no option than to seek refuge with their neighbours. DAILY POST reports that some residents of the city blamed the flooding on the ongoing road construction works in their areas. Fourth wife stabs husband to death for impregnating another woman in Ijebu-Ode But, the Ogun State Government has assured the residents it would work to resolve the erosion problems in the town, with the view of controlling the perennial flooding in Ijebu Ode and its environs. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment, Ola Oresanya, and his Ministry of Works and Infrastructure counterpart, Akeem Adesina, spoke when they jointly led a state government delegation on an on-the-spot assessment of the flood situation in Olorunsogo community. Oresanya said the delegation was in the community to assess the situation, expressing the government’s commitment to resolve the erosion problems in Ijebu Ode, which he confirmed had contributed to the flooding of some parts of the town. He said investigations had, however, revealed that the recent flash-flood experienced in the area is a perennial occurrence and cannot be attributed to the ongoing road construction works in the community. Oresanya blamed the residents for not adhering to the town planning laws and building houses on wetland and flood plains. He, therefore, urged the residents to begin to live with the risk, and immediately commence construction of drainage channels in front of their houses while awaiting the government holistic plan to solve the problem permanently.  Excitement as Ortom floods IDPs camps with relief materials [Photos]