Former National Deputy Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Alhaji Saliu Mustapha, has declared that Governor Ben Ayade of Cross Rivers State is not the last Governor of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that will join the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Mustapha made this disclosure while speaking with journalists on Friday in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. DAILY POST recalls that Ayade had last month dumped the PDP and joined the APC. Mustapha, who is a close ally to President Muhamadu Buhari has, however, said that Ayade is not the last Governor of PDP that will join APC. The APC chieftain while speaking, noted that more PDP governors who have concluded plans to join APC will soon announce their defection to APC. He hinted on the possibility of the defection of more Governors elected on the platform of PDP to APC any time soon. Mustapha, who had earlier declared his interest to contest as National Chairman of APC, also revealed that other top political office holders will follow the Governors to join APC. “Governor Ben Ayade is not the last governor that will join the APC. You’ll be surprised that more governors will also come to the light in the coming days. Nigeria cannot survive another civil war – Mustapha warns “Take my words for it, there are many more governors who have advanced their talks with the party national leadership. Apart from Governors, there are other big fishes in the polity that are porting soon.” “So, the question that should agitate your minds is, if the APC is all that unattractive as naysayers are painting, why are all these big guns trooping into the party? “You can connect the dots. There is no politician of means in this clime that will open his or her own eyes wide open and join a sinking ship. It is both too expensive and unrewarding to do. “He boldly faced the camera for it. We all listened to him. You see, people like Gov. Ayade do not belong in the PDP. He is too decent a man, too progressive minded, too cosmopolitan to be in the PDP. And that is why he was stifled so hard in the PDP. And like I said in my public reaction to his defection, APC will be more than just a home for him. It will also be an ideological pathway for him. I trust that he and a multitude of Cross-Riverians will begin to see
the difference in the days ahead. “Be that as it may, if people say Governor Ben Ayade joined our party because of the delisting of oil wells, is Ebonyi State also an oil-producing state? Invariably, there is something noteworthy these individuals have seen that propelled their intention to camp with us.” We won’t surrender Nigeria to terrorists – SGF, Boss Mustapha