Farmers in Dansadau have warned that famine may hit the entire country as notorious bandits have taken over farmlands, threatening not to allow farmers to cultivate this farming season. The farmers also warned that if the federal government abandons the issue of security unchecked what happened in Somalia would seriously repeat in Nigeria. The Chairman, Dansadau farmers association, Yau Mohammed Dansadau in an interview said he used to cultivate over 10,000 bags of assorted grains annually before bandits’ activities consumed Zamfara State. The farmer noted that if the federal government should leave the insecurity situation unchecked what happened in Somalia would seriously affect Nigeria. He said the killings and wanton destruction being carried out by the bandits in the state is gradually turning farming activities into a dangerous venture. Gov Matawalle suspends Zamfara emir, district head “If the spate of sporadic attacks on farms by bandits is not checkmated by the government, farmers in the state will have no other option than to abandon their farming as a means of saving themselves from being killed or maimed by the bandits” he lamented. “Before banditry activities in the state, I use to harvest at least 10,000 bags of grains but unfortunately in the last two years my production output has reduced drastically to a very bad one as low as 1,300 bags which was what I harvested last year” “Even the 1300bags which I produced last year was done by proxy because I personally not for once visited the farms because of the fear of being killed by the bandits” “In one of the farms, which is about 4kilometers from Dansadau, a farmland which is about 33 hectares where I normally cultivate at least 1,200 bags of grains but due to banditry activities, I got only 160 bags as the bandits made their cows eat and destroy the majority of my crops” “Among my contemporaries, I am the only one who was able to produce over 1000 bags of grains, one or two others got less than 600 bags while majority could not even farm as a result of banditry activities” “At this period when preparation for the year’s farming season is supposed to be at its peak, see me sitting in Gusau instead of being at my farm in Dansadau” “Look at me! living as a refugee, if not because of security challenges, I would have been on my farm at this period doing land clearing and other things to get set for the rains but I’m here in Gusau” The farmer explained that in some communities where big farmlands are located, there is no more accessibility due to the fear of banditry in the areas, saying there was a need for proactive security measures to be put in place to protect the lives and properties of the farmers in the state. Dansadau chided the Zamfara State government for failing to tackle the bandit’s activities describing the peace accord and reconciliation with bandits as a sign of failure. “The state governor once said that if the security operatives were capable of crushing the bandits, the issue of a peace accord with the bandits wouldn’t have arisen” he lamented. “I suggest that people should be allowed to carry their own weapons for self-defense and that can even reduce the burden of the security agencies” he concluded. Banditry: Zamfara govt bans petroleum products black markers in troubled areas