There seems to be no end in sight to the crisis currently rocking the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the state congress and the 2022 gubernatorial election in the state draws nearer. The information available to DAILY POST indicates that the newly formed The Osun Progressives (TOP), a group within the party structure in the state had petitioned the Osun State Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokede over recent comments recently made by the State Commissioner for Works and Transport, Omowaiye Oluremi in Ilesa. Information gathered revealed that Omowaiye had during a meeting of the APC in Ilesa West local government said that the group was persona non grata. This comment did not sit well with the leadership of TOP who decided to file a petition before the Osun State Police Command. Osun: Politicians supporting Oyetola are after appointments – Adebiyi The petition, DAILY POST reliably gathered was written by Adelani Baderinwa, the Secretary to the group and former Osun Commissioner for Information and Strategy who served under the Rauf Aregbesola administration. A police source also confirmed that the Chairman of TOP, Moses Adelowo Adebiyi and Secretary, Adelani Baderinwa were at the Command headquarter in respect of the petition. In his reaction, Omowaiye who was sighted at the State Police headquarters on Friday confirmed that he was invited by the police in respect of the petition but declined to comment further on the matter describing it as a distraction that will not hold water. The Commissioner explained that the petition was a petty issue whose response was needless, adding that the leadership of the party at all levels has banned TOP. While stating that the petition was a distraction that the party was not ready for, Omowaiye maintained that the focus of the state government was good governance and responsible delivery of democratic dividends to move Osun forward. Omowaiye revealed that he considered the petition a cover-up for threats against some members of government. DAILY POST recalls that The Osun Progressives (TOP) was formed when former members of Rauf Aregbesola’s cabinet visited him during the Eid-el Fitri festival in Lagos where he was selected as the Chairman, Board Of Trustees. The formation of TOP has also polarised the party in the state as some members see it as another strategy in the perceived battle between Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and his predecessor, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. The problem that the group’s formation created has also led to the suspension of Moses Adelowo Adebiyi, the Chairman of TOP from the APC party Elders Caucus during their last meeting. The APC Elders Caucus had accused Adebiyi of causing disunity within the party, an allegation which he has since debunked. Adebiyi explained that the aim of TOP is not to divide the party but rather to sensitise members of the APC adding that it was a caucus within the party and its formation was in accordance with Articles 9 and 12 of the APC Constitution. Shoot at sight order: Don’t push us, we’ll do worse than Boko Haram – Biafra group warns Buhari