The Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) has denied recognising the late Buruji Kashamu faction as the authentic executive of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The commission also denied handing over forms CF001 and CF002 belonging to the PDP to one Leke Shittu, who it was said paraded himself as the State Secretary of the party to OGSIEC. The PDP had on Friday alleged that the Chairman of the electoral umpire, Babatunde Osibodu, said he would pitch tents with the Kashamu loyalists as far as the July 24 local government election is concerned. The party’s Publicity Secretary, Akinloye Bankole, expressed displeasure that the commission was making efforts to truncate the unity that had returned to the party after years of imbroglio. Bankole explained that reports on the social media pointed to the fact that OGSIEC attended a primary election conducted by the said Leke Shittu and had therefore handed over forms to him. Reacting, OGSIEC said the information that it had given out forms to a faction of the PDP is not true. In an interview with DAILY POST, the commission’s spokesperson, Adeyinka Musa-Richard, OGSIEC said it has not handed over forms to Shittu. Kashamu loyalists dump PDP for APC in Ogun, say Amosun is their leader “People are just posting what they like on social media. OGSIEC has not handed over forms to any PDP faction in Ogun State. The Chairman will address the press very soon,” Musa-Richard said. Meanwhile, the PDP spokesman has given an update on the situation regarding the matter. In a statement made available to DAILY POST on Saturday, Bankole said: “Dear leaders of our great party, it is important to keep us abreast of developments surrounding our party’s participation in the forthcoming LG election. Sirs, it is my wish to assure you with all sense of responsibility that, for sure, no forms have been given out to the gang of impostors who are hellbent on stampeding our party from this contest. “As of today, we have successfully submitted all papers to OGSIEC and the same were received and properly acknowledged by the OGSIEC Chairman, Mr Tunde Osibodu, in person . “He, however, promised to correct whatever error the commission made on the strength of new papers presented by us. “In all, I have the confidence to inform us to continue our works in our individual wards and local governments. We are confident. We are good to go as we wait patiently to hear from them by Monday/Tuesday next week. “According to the Chairman, OGSIEC has adjusted their timetable and they are still willing to adjust the timetable in order to accommodate new realities as may be required. “Stemming from this, it’s equally important that we intensify our strategies of mobilising, campaigning, while we await the commission’s further action,” Bankole submitted. Ogun LG polls: PDP leader slams Abiodun as OGSIEC demands N200,000 from candidates