Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Senate, yesterday, observed a one minute silence eight times to mourn hundreds of Nigerians killed across various states of the federation in recent times. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan subsequently revealed that legislative interventions must be stepped up to protect Nigerians against the spate of insecurity in the country. 2. National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has declared June 12 as “national day of protest” for Nigerian students. Its National President, Sunday Asefon, said the country has nothing to celebrate on June 12 as Democracy Day when students were being killed and kidnapped by bandits. 3. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, warned people behind security problems in the country, saying he would soon be hard on them. His warning was contained in a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. 4. Chairman of the Southeast Governors’ Forum, Dave Umahi, has said May 30 would always be set aside as a day to remember millions of Igbo that lost their lives during the civil war. Governor Umahi of Ebonyi State stated this during a television interview, yesterday. 5. The Federal Government has slammed those opposed to the achievements of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration as envious ‘naysayers.’ Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, stated this at the presentation of a documentary showcasing the achievements of Buhari’s administration in Abuja, yesterday. 6. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has told Nigerians to reject the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023 as it has only tales of killings and kidnappings to offer. Wike gave the charge at the flag-off ceremony for the construction of Etche Campus of Rivers State University in Abara Town of Etche Local Government Area, on Tuesday. 7. There is an ongoing controversy over the death of the Chief Executive of the National Examination Council, NECO, Prof. Godswill Obioma following the conflicting reports about the cause of his death. While the wife, Elizabeth Obioma who broke the news claimed that her husband was assassinated, the son came up with a version that his father actually died from heart attack. According to Mrs Obioma, “The assassins came in and killed him and left without taking anything,” She told Peoples Gazette. 8. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State yesterday, called for a unicameral legislature for the country. He spoke at the Akure Centre of the South-West Zonal Public Hearing on the constitution review, on Tuesday. 9. The South East Governors’ Forum has urged security agencies to immediately arrest those responsible for the murder of Alhaji Ahmed Gulak, an APC Chieftain. This was contained in a statement issued by the Chairman of the forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Governor David Umahi, on Tuesday. 10. The Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has said the recent move to amend the 1999 Constitution is necessary to address its shortcomings. He said this in his address at the ongoing zonal public hearing on constitution review in Lagos State. UCL: Sergio Ramos breaks silence on Real Madrid’s exit