Two hoteliers and guest house operators around the Synagogue, Church of All Nations (SCOAN) at Ikotun-Egbe in Alimosho Local Government of Lagos State, have said that, that it is not yet known if the spouse of T.B Joshua, Evelyn Joshua would able to perform in the deliverance ministry like the founder. Evelyn was recently commissioned by the church’s elders to take over as the leader of the church. But, while decrying non patronage since the demise of Joshua, the hoteliers noted that it was the deliverance variant of the gospel that was attracting people from all over the world and had sustained their businesses all those years. T.B Joshua died on June 5 after overseeing a church programme the previous day and the business owners noted that the only way their business can be revived is the emergence of another healer in the Synagogue The owners of the various facilities meant for lodging spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria, NAN, in Lagos on Sunday, adding that the demise of the SCOAN pastor had subjected them to anxiety. Prayers, not ‘Plan B’, will save Nigeria from war – cleric tells Christians Mr Alhponus Odioma, the owner of a 240-room facility in the area, said, “I began business in the area since 2007 with a little residential apartment that I acquired but with the upsurge of lodging demands, I had to get a bigger place. “Like my other colleagues, I hired more personnel alongside constant innovation of services and facilities to retain and attract more patronage especially from foreigners that were coming to worship at SCOAN. “We are now running at a deficit as we are experiencing lull in business. Before now, the revenue we usually realised in a week was enough to cater for a month’s overhead. “Right now, we are experiencing lull in our businesses without one knowing when it will end. “Though the spouse of the founder had been commissioned to take over as the leader of the church, but it is not yet known if she would able to perform in the deliverance ministry like the founder. “It was the deliverance variant of the gospel that was attracting people from all over the world to the place; that sustained our businesses all those years. Also, Chief Mathew Ohajiri, another hotelier, said that his facility and business were hanging in the balance as the place had been empty since the demise of Pastor TB Joshua. Ohajiri expressed hope of the return of the good old days’ business with the raising of another healer in the synagogue, adding that despondency had become their lot for now. SCOAN: T.B Joshua’s successor emerges