A socio-cultural group, the World Igbo Peoples Assembly (WIPA), have demanded the prosecution of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kalu based on the rule of law. The group said Kanu’s prosecution should be based on verifiable evidence and not hearsay or propaganda. WIPAS’s demand was contained in a press statement signed by its Board of Trustees Chairman, Mazi Chuks Ibegbu and made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday. The Igbo Assembly maintained that Kanu and his group were not violent and it was the Nigeria culture of impunity and brutality that radicalised them. The organization called for an end to the culture of impunity in Nigeria which spawned Boko Haram and Shiite radicalism. It lamented that President Muhammadu Buhari and Nigerian elites caused and aggravated the insecurity in Nigeria. “Buhari should have engaged Nnamdi Kanu and other agitators in the past and the situation would not have escalated,” the group noted. WIPAS further called for the arrest and trial of the leaders of Miyetti Allah, the leaders of Boko Haram and the leaders of the Northern bandits. It queried, “Why the attention to Nnamdi Kanu alone? Why are issues involving Ndigbo taken with extreme fright and reaction by the North? “No northerner in the South East is molested or killed as some propaganda elements in the North note. Some idle Northern youths now use IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu as a pastime to make money from the Northern elites that abandoned them over the years and make frivolous and false claims. “These idle youths and individuals from the North should face the insecurity, banditry and Boko Haram in the North and not Nnamdi Kanu who has his own burden to bear. If Buhari can dialogue with the Niger Delta Avengers, he should also do so with the IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu. Why the hasty criminalisation of Kanu. Why is he pampering Killer herdsmen? The socio-cultural organization, however, called on the President to use this opportunity to engage Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB, and end the imbroglio.