The Chief Registrar, Bauchi State High Court, Emmanuel Sublim, has raised an alarm over the rise in rape and gender-based violence, revealing that no fewer than five such cases are filed daily in magistrate courts in the state. Sublim made the revelation on Wednesday in Bauchi at the opening of a one-day programme on Women, Peace and Security in Nigeria, organized by United Nations Women (UN Women) at the Command Guest House. He said there was an increase in gender-based violence cases in the state going by the number of such cases heard by courts, particularly magistrate courts, on daily basis, declaring that this was alarming. Ugwuanyi’s wife campaigns against gender-based violence in Enugu State He, however, lamented that most of the cases do not lead to convictions of alleged culprits, attributing this to problems in the investigation, prosecution or even legal advice. Sublim also informed that at times parents of victims refuse to make statements to corroborate some of the cases that come up in courts, saying that it is a cultural problem that hampers the smooth prosecution of such cases. “Gender-based cases are on the rise in Bauchi State and they seem to be alarming because, from the reports that are usually sent to the Magistrate Courts in Bauchi, I discovered that on a daily basis we have not less than five cases coming to the courts. “The unfortunate thing is that the cases don’t end up in conviction. This is either that there are problems in the course of investigation or problems in the course of prosecution or problems when case files are sent to the Ministry of Justice for legal advice,” the Chief Registrar said. He submitted that gender-based violence was not something to be swept under the carpets, adding that there was a need for women to be protected by the laws of the land. Ekiti First Lady restates govt’s zero tolerance for Gender-Based Violence among students
“Unfortunately, we don’t have anybody to put an eye on some of these things that are happening from the time arrests are made up to the time the accused persons are taken to court. “We are really worried and I think this programme is a forum where we begin to sensitize ourselves and those we live with to see that gender-based violence are not just things we can sweep away. “We should try as much as possible to see that women are given due protection by our laws,” Sublim said. Also speaking at the event, a Programme Coordinator with UN Women, Peter Mancha, informed that 15 states, including Bauchi State, had so far not only keyed into the implementation of the UN Women programme but also launched implementation plans. He said the UN Women had been working with various partners, including Partners West Africa Nigeria (PWAN) and International Alert, to implement the programme with the support of the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning.