A former Secretary to Oyo State Government, Barrister Sharafaden Abiodun Alli has declared that many residents of the state cannot sleep and close their eyes due to incessant armed robberies, kidnapping and killings in the state. Alli made this disclosure in a statement made available to newsmen on Saturday. DAILY POST recalls that Ibadan, Igangan, Ogbomoso and other parts of the state capital had in the last few weeks witnessed a series of armed robberies, kidnapping and killing of innocent citizens. Armed robbers recently invaded Alaafia estate in Orogun, Ibadan and robbed residents with point of sales machines. Some people suspected to be Fulani herdsmen last week invaded Igangan in Ibarapa North local government area and killed about twenty people. DAILY POST recalls that a final year student of The Polytechnic Ibadan, Ebenezer Ayeni, was on Thursday killed by some armed robbers who invaded Ojoo area. Some residents of Ibadan are currently experiencing tension due to the alleged invasion of some local government areas by suspected Fulani herdsmen Alli has, however, said that many residents of the state can no longer sleep and close their eyes due to robbers, herdsmen or kidnappers attacks. The former Chairman, Odu’a Investment, specifically mentioned that residents of Alakia, Akobo, Akala Road in Ibadan and other parts of the state now live in fear. Alli, added that it is unfortunate that the state is no more safe for residents, despite the amount of money being received as security votes from the federal government. He enjoined Makinde and the Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko to fish out the killers of the final year student of the Polytechnic Ibadan. Alli, while speaking further asked Makinde to seek help from the last administration, if he lacks the power to tackle security challenges in the state. He said, “Just a few weeks ago, the robbers invaded a Community in Ibadan and robbed residents with Point of Sales Machine (POS), the people of Alakia, Akobo, Akala Road and other parts of the state cannot sleep and close their eyes. For how long can we continue with this. “I am calling on the governor and security agencies to ensure they arrest those robbers behind the killing of Ebenezer Ayeni and HND two student of the Polytechnic Ibadan. “It is true that security issue is general but what we are having here is different from that of other states. If the rural areas are not safe because of the herdsmen it must strictly be addressed, government must ensure the urban cities in the state are at least safe.”