On the 5th of June, vivo launched the V21/V21e smartphone to make professional smartphone imagery accessible to all users. It is the latest in vivo’s longstanding V-series of smartphones, which has a long history of providing consumers with fashion-forward, camera-focused devices at competitive prices. The V21e features a 44MP AF Front Camera which combines AI Night Portrait for a rich photography and videography experience and the V21 boasts of a unique Optical Image Stabilization (OIS) on the front and rear cameras all designed in a bid to enhance everyday life for users. Professional-level imagery, advanced autofocus and night vision with both front and rear cameras. The new vivo V21ee brings together vivo’s best-in-class front-camera hardware, combined with cutting-edge software and autofocus features for clearer images, better night shots and more stabilized videos in 4K quality. The powerful 44MP front camera with f/2.0 aperture allows for greater light exposure even in environments where lighting is limited. Through the hardware and software integration, the Super Night Selfie features multi-level exposure and multiple high-quality image frames, enhancing the brightness and details of night scenes, as well as ensuring better clarity of portraits. Together with the AI Night Portrait, which combines a multi-frame noise reduction algorithm and AI high-definition technology, it is easy for users to capture great night photos. The front camera also comes with advanced autofocus features that are uncommon among many front smartphone cameras in the market. These features help create sharp, high quality imagery regardless of shooting distance and enables clear focus. At the same time, the impressive 64MP rear camera provides outstanding image quality, brought to life with the support of a set of secondary cameras to respectively handle macro photography, along with wide angle and more complex shots. Both front and rear cameras can capture 4K quality images and videos, while the Electronic Image Stabilization (EIS) builds in greater stabilization through software algorithms without the need for additional hardware, saving space and thus reducing the size of the phone. This feature can significantly improve video quality for handheld shots, enabling steadier viewing angles and overall better video quality. The V21e also packs a collection of other creative features such as advanced AI to augment facial features, Dual-view Video, a slow-motion camera, and various filters and portrait styles for users to explore for a more artistic and interactive experience. The combination of all these features makes the V21e an ideal companion for vlogging and for users to share every bit of their lives with their friends and family virtually or physically. While for the V21, it is equipped with OIS for both front and rear cameras to ensure camera stability and increases exposure time. This allows users to take pictures or videos from different angles to reflect their unique personality and fashion style. With this camera, even moving images are less likely to get blurry. It also comes with the AI Night Portrait mode that makes night photography a whole lot better. Stylish design with ultra-slim body The new V21 series features an elegant, sleek aesthetic which effortlessly integrates thoughtful and sophisticated design elements. Its polycarbonate middle frame is crafted using the Vacuum Metalizing technique. It gives a solid, seamless body which is lightweight and easy to hold. Built with perfection and excellence, the back side features an AG Glass back cover which enhances the overall look and feel of the V21e, giving it a smooth grip with a soft and delicate touch. The craftsmanship of the rear camera lens cover is enriched by UV printing and electron beam evaporation technology to enhance its sleek and sophisticated look. The frontside of the V21e features a vibrant 6.44” AMOLED display with FHD ultra-high resolution to support smooth visual effects, less motion blur, and a stunning visual experience. The V21 has an E3 AMOLED full-screen display that enhances the viewing experience for users. Whatever the media on display, from watching videos to mobile gaming, vivo has users covered. Finer details of the V21e include its stylish color gradient, which radiates light, a testament to the more artistic design features integrated into the handset’s fundamental design. Its ultra-slim body measures 7.38mm thin and only weighs 171g, with stunning colors available in Roman Black and Diamond Flare. Meanwhile, the V21 is available in 7.29mm thinness, an extremely lightweight feel and comes in colours of Dusk Blue, Arctic White and Sunset Dazzle. All round powerful performance to cover every aspect of today’s smart lifestyle The V21e is powered by a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G processor with 8GB RAM and 128GB ROM. Supported by vivo’s Extended RAM, users can enjoy an additional “+3GB” virtual RAM boost through a sophisticated algorithm which unleashes the full memory potential of the V21e for smoother performance of applications and the operating system. The V21 powers up with an MTK Dimensity 800U and a 90Hz refresh rate. It also has an extended RAM of 3GB added to the previous 8GB RAM. The V21 series offers an Ultra Game Mode which brings users a truly immersive mobile gaming experience. Its features, which range from turning off background notifications to balancing the phone’s temperature, are all specially designed to provide an exhilarating gaming experience. Adding to this is the 33W Flash Charge, which allows users to power up their phone in no time, providing users with more hours and flexibility to shoot photos, play games, and more. The V21 series also comes with various smart home features, such as Jovi Home and wellbeing applications, to cater for every aspect of a modern and smart lifestyle. Users can now enjoy an updated uniform interface, with apps to help track and maintain both emotional and physical health. Price and availability information The V21 and V21e are available for purchase across all authorized retail outlets near you within Nigeria or at the official vivo Nigeria Jumia store . store. The selling price for the V21 is ₦159,000 while the V21e retails foris ₦129,000. To learn more, please visit http://www.vivo.com/ or vivo pages on Instagram, and Facebook.