The Northern Youths Council of Nigeria, NYCN, has called on the chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa to publicly name the minister and the Bank Managing Director involved in the $37.5 million transaction he investigated or resign. Recall that the chairman of EFCC, Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa in an interview on Channels Television said the commission investigated a matter in which a bank MD sold a property to a minister at $37.5m. The bank then sent a vehicle to her house to evacuate the sum of $20m in the first instance. A statement by the northern youths spokesman, Mock Samuel Kure, expressed shock over the revelation by Abdulrasheed Bawa. The group said it was safe as right-thinking Nigerians to assume that the EFCC is thorough with its investigation of the matter, claiming that the said Minister and the bank MD are yet to be ducked in any Court of competent jurisdiction. The NYCN believed that there is a deliberate attempt by the EFCC to conceal the identity of the thieves of the country’s commonwealth, saying that if the EFCC can speedily parade suspected Yahoo boys and girls, why is the case of these characters different? It noted that the inability of the EFCC to disclose their identity shows that either some people are more powerful than the EFCC or that there are powerful individuals teleguiding the EFCC boss on who to parade or not. According to the group, “We want to assure him that Northern Youths will stand with him and do everything to protect him, even if it means providing a human shield for him in all his outings provided that he put the interest of over 200m Nigerians above the microscopic few that have access to our common patrimony.” The statement said in the event that the EFCC feels he can’t name and shame the bank MD and the Minister involved, he should resign and leave the stage for a more serious and fearless person to take over the wheel. The group said until the identity of the said minister is made public, Nigerians would continue to see every female minister serving in the present regime as an operator of “House Vault” that is out for self-aggrandizement, adding that to salvage the reputation of other Ministers that are selflessly working for the betterment of Nigeria, the EFCC should quickly let the cat out of the bag.