Chuks Ibegbu, the immediate past spokesman of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has cautioned politicians against heating up the Abia State polity over the 2023 governorship seat. This was even as the people of Ukwa/Ngwa extraction of the state resolved to retain the governorship seat of the state ahead of the 2023 general election. They spoke through their elders council in a communique issued to newsmen after its enlarged inaugural meeting held in Okpuala Ngwa in Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area of the state. The people of Ukwa/Ngwa extraction known as old Aba zone, hinted that after the eight years tenure of the incumbent Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, who happens to be from Ukwa Ngwa area, the zone would retain the governorship seat for another eight years, to make up for the 16 years tenure that was spent by the old Bende bloc. In a statement made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday, Ibegbu called on all parties to consider the well being of the state, noting that the state has been lagging behind other states since 1999. He noted that Abia has great minds and men insisting that the state was still very backward in all indices. “What the state needs most now are good leaders who can change the narrative in governance,” Ibegbu opined. The Abia chieftain called on the state government to investigate why workers of Abia state Polytechnic Aba and the pensioners of the school are owed up to 30 months arrears of salaries and pensions. Ibegbu warned against the sacking of workers and called for immediate recall of all staff of the school who were sacked except those sacked on clearly identified grounds. In the same vein, sociopolitical groups have warned against the continued exchange of political brickbats by politicians over the 2023 governorship seat of Abia state. Among the groups include, the Abia Equity Movement (ABEM), Ukwa Ngwa Justice Congress (UNJC), Abia United and Ukwa Peoples Assembly (UPA). In their reactions which was contained in a release issued on Tuesday, the organizations wondered how the Ukwa La Ngwa extraction of Abia arrived at its jaundiced proclamation which they consider to have no meaning but just to cause confusion in the state. They noted that the next Governor of Abia State can come from Abia North or Abia Central as the three senatorial zones of the state have had their shots. According to the groups, there is no demarcated zoning formulae in the state but its moral that Abia South is excluded from the contest being the zone currently occupying the position.