The leadership of the Theater Arts and Motion Picture Producers Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN) have waded into the legal matter involving Olarenwaju Oyiminka aka Baba Ijesha. The Board of Trustees (BoT) and Elders of the Nigerian Motion Picture Industry addressed the media on Saturday over the issue. Baba Ijesha faces six-count charges bordering on the indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, sexual assault by penetration, among others. But Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of the Lagos State Special Offences Court in Ikeja on Thursday granted him N2 million bail. In their positions, Adebayo Salami and Jide Kosoko, TAMPAN BoT Chairman and Secretary condemned the “malicious damages” by “unruly individuals that lack any iota of discipline and seem to feel to be above the law”. “We particularly observe the continuous derogatory statements made by Iyabo Ojo against the association and the industry as a whole.” Baba Ijesha disgraced Yoruba movie industry – Iyabo Ojo slams Yomi Fabiyi Nothing that they were against all forms of sexual assault, the communique accused Iyabo Ojo’s of “reckless accusations, abuses and embarrassment of our sector”. “If we allow the continuous blackmail to go unchecked, the current situation will continue to grow to the detriment of humble practitioners, whose only source of livelihood is the practice of Indigenous language movies. “Unfortunately, Nkechi Blessing has also joined in the Ignoble tirades against the Association and by extension, the industry and we say enough is enough! “Without the platform God gave you and many others of your likes through us to climb up the ladder and express your creativity, you may not be this visible today.” The communique noted that an offence against one is an offence against all, adding that the association will no longer tolerate “infringements”. The TAMPAN BoT declared they do not support acts of criminal behaviour in whatever guise. “We have stayed away from making comments on the Lanre Omiyinka (Baba Ijesha) saga because we believe in the rule of law and the ability of the courts to do justice without being swayed by emotions or influenced by sympathies.” On the views of Deji Aderemi, popularly known as Olofa Ina, the elders said his comments were personal. “The association does not condone immorality. If two consenting adults decide to have things in common, it does not mean that it is the standard practice. “The utterances from the likes of Iyabo Ojo, Nkechi Blessing and others are regarded as unfortunate words spoken by people who should know better as they have benefitted immensely from the association and industry.”