Niger State Government has ordered all boarding schools in Tegina, Rafi local Government Areas of the state to temporarily revert to day school. This is coming on the heels of the kidnap of about 200 children of the Salihu Tanko Islamic school in Tegina town by bandits on Sunday. Speaking on measures being put in place for the safe release of the abductees; the state Deputy Governor, Alh. Ahmed Ketso in Minna said, “in our last update, we disclosed that the government was making efforts to identify the bandits. “We also confirmed that the government had ordered all boarding schools in the area to temporarily revert to day, perhaps the reason the terrorists attacked the Islamiya school.” Niger: Anger as Gov Bello travels abroad amid kidnap of children, security challenges He also reiterated the stance of the State against payment of ransoms to secure the release of victims of kidnap in the state saying, ” let me restate our stand not to pay any form of ransom.” This is against the backdrop of the demand by bandits of the sum of N110 million to secure the freedom of the 200 children in their custody. He, however, maintained that the Niger State Government is negotiating the release of the abductees and in no distant time, the young children will be united with their parents. “Government is in touch with some of the parents of the kidnapped children, and they have been assured of the safe return of their wards.” Ketso further pledged that the state government will continue to support the security agencies in the state with the needed logistics to enable them secure the state. “We call on all residents in the state to come forward with useful information on the activities of bandits in their area to the nearest security operatives. “Let me call on the media to desist from peddling rumours, thereby misleading the general public. “The general public is advised to use social media responsibly, ‘if you are not sure do not share,” he added. Niger govt confirms arrest of abductors of Islamic school children