National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance (CAGG), Olusegun Bamgbose, has said that the country needs a superstar to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari when his tenure expires in 2023. The New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) chieftain noted that the greatest mistake the electorate will ever make will be to install a politician without a clear-cut mission to take over from Buhari. “Nigeria will need a superstar to succeed Buhari come 2023, anything short of this may spell doom for this country,” the senior lawyer told DAILY POST on Friday. Insecurity: Civil war may break out in Nigeria – Bamgbose warns Buhari “Nigeria will need someone that is above board, a man that won’t give corruption a breathing space, a highly detribalized man. A man who is fearless, focussed, and friendly.” According to Bamgbose, the present crop of politicians jostling to occupy the nation’s number seat after Buhari do not possess the needed qualities. “Most unfortunately Atiku and Tinubu, major contenders, do not have these qualities,” he added. “The biggest nightmare in the political history of Nigeria will be to make a wrong choice of who succeeds Buhari. “Presently we are faced with the challenges of insecurity, a battered economy, poverty, unemployment, hardship, and corruption, I seriously doubt the survival of this country without a man of mission and passion. Bamgbose advises Buhari on appointment of new Chief of Army Staff “Nigeria will need the emergence of her Messiah come 2023. Once we miss it in 2023, Nigeria may crash and implode. “We need a leader that will be determined to once and for all clean up the system and the polity. The truth is that presently our nation is seriously sick and gasping for breath. “Nigeria will need a superstar to succeed Buhari. We don’t need a leader with a mansion, but one with a mission. “We don’t need a leader with wealth but one with wisdom. Buhari’s successor has a lot of work to do. Nigeria undoubtedly will need a leader that won’t give excuses for his non-performance. “The reality is that the system has collapsed and messed up, the incoming President should not be one that will tell Nigerians that it will take 4 years for him to clear the mess. “We need a leader that should be prepared to lay down his life to move the nation forward. Such a leader should be discovered and elected as the next President of Nigeria.” 2023: Why Bola Tinubu supported Southern Governors on open grazing ban, restructuring – Bamgbose