Nigerians have reacted to the arrest of self-acclaimed Biafran leader, Nnamdi Kanu. DAILY POST had reported that Kanu was arrested by a combined team of Nigerian and foreign security agents in a coordinated interception. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Tuesday, at an emergency media briefing in his office confirmed the arrest of Kanu. Reacting, some Nigerians on social media said the arrest will end the activities of IPOB and ESN, while others believe that it may lead to a renewed tension in the South East. Nigerian govt rearrest IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered… @Ephis_xiv, “Nnamdi Kanu was arrested last weekend. Extradited to Nigeria.
Expect high tensions in the East. Stay safe my people. South East people, stay safe!” @Stallonez, “Nnamdi Kanu has been arrested far away outside the country, got me wondering how bandits in Nigeria are still going about freely, with Gumi as advocate.” @Adeniyi_sunny, “Nnamdi Kanu’s two-faced personality, living abroad, but causing violence at home, and rise of IPOB as terrorist organization. Igbo cannot be terrorist.” @Hehgshells, “They’ve arrested Nnamdi Kanu and we all know he’s never seeing the light of day again.” @chidi_esq, “Nnamdi Kanu arrested and extradited to Nigeria I’m hearing? Interesting development.” @Ibmnation, “If @MaziNnamdiKanu has been arrested that means we are one way close to victory, the greatest mistake this clueless administration will do is to arrest Nnamdi kanu again#.” Anakop, “If this is true then a perfect setup for him to realize his ambition dead or alive. But on a larger scale, I think this is a fake news.” @Wale_of_pluto, “Give it to Buhari on this. He went after Nnamdi Kanu and got him. That should be the end of ESN and IPOB.” @dondekojo, “Nnamdi Kanu arrested and extradited to Nigeria. You figure they’d hold him for long this time. Videos of him soliciting for arms against Nigeria and subsequently setting up ESN won’t help his case at all. Really hope FG respect human rights in their dealings.” @Adeniyi sunday, “Why Igbo people allow Nnamdi Kanu, a conman, to be conning them? Igbos, you have to rise. He wants to destroy Onyeama. He wants to destroy Ekweremadu. He wants to destroy everybody and the Igbo people are keeping quiet.#KanuIsATerrorist #KanuExposed #DelegitimizeKanu.”