The Nigerian Army says it is observing the 40th-day prayers for the late Chief of Army Staff and ten other personnel who lost their lives in a plane crash in Kaduna In a statement on Wednesday by the Director, Army Public Relations Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, the Army expressed its condolences to the widows, children and relations of the deceased. Nwachukwu urged them not to despair and assured them of the continuous support of the Nigerian Army. “The Nigerian Army today 30 June 2021, observed the 40th-day prayers for the repose of the souls of the former Chief of Army Staff (COAS), late Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other personnel, who died in the unfortunate air mishap of 21 May 2021 at the Kaduna International Airport. Conducting the prayers at Niger Barracks, Abuja, the Director of Islamic Affairs, Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Shehu Mustapha prayed to Almighty Allah to grant the deceased eternal rest in Al-Janah Firdaus. He also prayed for the families and relations of the departed souls, the Nigerian Armed Forces and friends, the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. The statement said, ”the demise of Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 others is a great loss to the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the nation at large. He reminded all of the need to be mindful of their deeds here on earth in preparation for life’s final journey. “Dignitaries that graced the occasion include the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, Chief of Army Staff, Major General Faruk Yahaya, Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Auwal Gambo. “Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, Principal Staff Officers from Defence and the Services Headquarters, members of Defence and Police Officers’ Wives Association (DEPOWA), Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association (NAOWA), Naval Officers’ Wives Association (NOWA), Nigerian Air Force Officers’ Wives Association (NAFOWA) and Nigerian Army Soldiers’ Wives Association (NASWA). “Also present was the wife of the late COAS, Mrs Fati Attahiru, families and friends of the deceased amongst several other dignitaries.