The Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye has said the vision of the founding fathers of Nigeria shall not be in vain in spite of the recent insecurity challenges. The Speaker in a statement by his media aide, Kunle Alabi, to commemorate Nigeria’s Democracy Day called on all lovers of peace and freedom to rise against insecurity, a menace that has regressed into chaos in almost every part of the country. He admonished people fanning the embers of discord to have a rethink, adding that an unsecured atmosphere offers no good other than economic depression, environmental problems and conflict in social structure, Osun Speaker felicitates with Bola Tinubu at 69 Owoeye who stressed that Nigeria as envisioned by the fathers of the federation is possible if Nigerians are given to patriotism added that if politicians go into politics and national service with the mindset of giving to the country, Nigeria will be a better place for all. “I want to use the occasion of our Democracy Day to appeal to the few people who are bent on tampering with the fragile peace of our nation to have a change of mind and consider the adverse effect that their actions will have on families, cities and towns. “We cannot deny that the present state of the country is worrisome and displeasing, but calling for the division of the country is not the solution to our present condition. “Nigerians must all stand up in support of one indivisible country where all tribes and ethnic groups will flourish and attain its potentials. “Citizens must not compromise our peace and unity. What our begetters envisioned for the country is our unity in diversity, peace and progress of a prosperous Nigeria. “All hands must be on deck at ensuring that the labour of our heroes past does not amount to nothing. This current position will soon fade away with the renewed vigour of governments. Nigeria will survive must be the song on every lips”, the Speaker emphasised. Constitution Review: Nigeria needs proactive restructuring for peaceful coexistence – Osun Speaker