The Nigerian Army has reacted to claims by Sheikh Ahmad Gumi that the Nigerian military was colluding with bandits responsible for various crimes and atrocities across the country. The Islamic scholar made the allegations when he featured on ARISE TV Morning Show on Wednesday. Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, Director of Army Public Relations in a statement condemned Gumi’s allegations. Nwachukwu said the military arm has conducted its constitutional responsibilities most professionally in line with global best practices of adherence to the rules of engagement and protection of fundamental human rights. He noted that Gumi’s comment was a calculated attempt to denigrate the Nigerian military and undermine the sacrifices of patriotic troops, who are working tirelessly to restore peace and stability across the country. “It is essential to remind ourselves that this same military, being accused of connivance, are the ones who recently put their lives on the line to rescue abductees of the Government Secondary School, Birnin Yawuri from kidnappers. “While the NA will not attempt to excuse the possibility of black sheep amongst its fold, it must be stated unambiguously that it will not condone any form of sabotage or aiding and assisting the enemy by any personnel, as provisions for dealing decisively with such acts are crystallised in Section 45 (1) of the Armed Forces Act CAP A 20 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “It must also be pointed out, that while the military is very much receptive to constructive criticism, it should not be perceived as a gateway for derogatory comments that have the potential to embolden criminals. “It is also necessary to reiterate that patriotism must be taken to a trajectory where subversive conversations on the state are brought to the barest minimum.” The Army advised opinion leaders to demonstrate patriotism in building peace, rather than being agents of destabilization and aggravating the current security challenges facing the nation.