The Northern Youth Advocates for Atiku Abubakar (NOYAA) has alleged that the Special Assistant to the ex-Vice President on Youth and Support Groups, Amb. Aliyu Abbas, was unduly meddling in its affairs and as such removed him as grand patron. This was contained in a statement signed by Hon. Bello Muazu, National Coordinator/Founder, Northern Youth Advocates for Atiku. The statement explained that Abbas was appointed to inspire the organisation in an advisory capacity, not to cause disharmony within the group or take over the running of NOYAA. “After deliberating on the events of recent days, the leadership of the Northern Youth Advocates for Atiku (NOYAA) hereby revokes the appointment of Amb. Aliyu Bin Abbas as our National Grand Patron with immediate effect,” the statement said. “We saw what he was doing by marketing our mentor, His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar which informed the decision to bring him up to offer advise and guidance as patron, a role he willingly accepted and with which he dutifully worked along until recently for whatever reasons best known to him. “Whatever informed his decision to go against the norms to begin interfering in our affairs to begin removing and appointing officials of our organisation is curiously disturbing for someone with whom we had profound respect and offered a formidable platform for realising his mission as Special Assistant to His Excellency on Youth and Support Groups. “Where is it done that an appointee advisor with no mandate or Board would arrogate non-existent powers through which he began to appoint or remove leaders in a group he never formed nor a founding member? “We therefore urge him to stop parading himself as our grand patron and to henceforth distance himself from NOYAA,” Muazu said. Abbas, who was appointed last year by the Muazu-led body, had recently suspended the founder and national leader of NOYAA, alleging activities at variance with the ideals of the organization founded by Muazu. But in reaction, Muazu disputed the allegation of working against Atiku when at the point of his so-called suspension, he was physically present in Kano where alongside with members of his group, he was involved in activities promoting the former Vice President in the populous city. “It is diversionary for Amb. Abbas and a plot to swindle or polarize our members by tactically dividing to rule our innocent members or else, how could someone appointed on advisory grounds would suddenly started to muzzle strength within a group he never founded,” the NOYAA leader probed. Muazu restated the group’s unhindered support for the Atiku presidential ambition; and stated that he would continue to accord the Atiku Care Foundation’s DG required courtesies as one on the same boat to get Nigeria working again through the Waziri Adamawa. He however disclosed that he would not allow the efforts already put into the organisation to go down the drains with anyone’s overbearing influence obviously geared towards hijacking the thriving political group for whatever reason.