The federal government has been advised to address the influx of illegal immigrants in the country to reduce the spate of kidnapping, attacks and killing of innocent citizens in some parts of the country. The President of the West African Young Statisticians, (WAYSA), Mr. Oyebimpe Adeniji, in an interview with DAILY POST on Wednesday, advised Buhari to check the influx of foreigners who enter access the country illegally through its porous borders. Adeniji regretted that Nigeria is not running a data-driven system claiming that is the reason foreigners enter the country without being challenged. Insurgency: Bauchi govt raises alarm over influx of IDPs from neighbouring states
He said it was unfortunate that there is no accurate data to determine the total population of Nigerians, a situation which he said will affect planning and development negatively. He said for the federal government to tackle insecurity, it must address the influx of foreigners who enter the country illegally. “From my own research, I discovered that there is already a kind of population explosion in this nation, we do not know our population. “Even, we do not know the number of illegal immigrants in our country. So many things we need to check in order to proffer solutions to our problems. “From my own understanding of data, I think the government has a lot to do. “Government needs to put the right people at the right place, especially statisticians and data users. They need to put them in the right positions. “If you go around the country, you will see that there are disparities in the placement of workers in MDAs, so we need the right people at the right place even at the right time. “So, and to solve these national problems, we have to adopt and believe in a data-driven society and not this rocket approach. “In this country, the problem is that we are not running a data-driven society. We do not know the total population of Nigerians and we do not know the number of foreigners who have been entering the country.”