Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Senator Uba Sani has said Nigeria’s democratic journey has been tortuous and therefore, must be protected. The Senator, in his Democracy day message, recalled that many people laid down their lives to ensure the nation towed the democratic path. Senator Uba who congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of Democracy day also noted that Nigeria still boasts of patriotic watchdogs holding leaders accountable and working assiduously to strengthen our democracy. “We remember today, dogged and committed fighters for democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms like my mentor, late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, SAN, GCON, Chief MKO Abiola, GCFR, Dr Beko Ransome Kuti and Chima Ubani. “They fought relentlessly against military authoritarianism. They led civil society activists and other patriots to expand the democratic space and renew the hope of the citizenry in a progressive and peaceful Nigeria. They gave up their comfort and freedom so that we can be free. We owe them and other patriots a debt of gratitude.” He urged leaders to reflect and ask themselves some critical questions involving their roles in ensuring that Nigeria’s democracy grows and is strengthened. He said if leaders are able to sincerely and objectively answer these questions, it will help them to recommit to the welfare and security of the Nigerian people. “Have we been meeting the expectations of our people? Are the challenges we are facing as a nation related to our inability to make democracy meaningful or beneficial to our people?” he questioned Uba Sani who observed that the country is bleeding called on patriots to come together to chart the path to peace and progress. His words: “We must support our dear President so that he can steady the ship of state. We must prioritize the welfare of our youths. Their empowerment is critical to the sustenance of our democracy and the security of our country. If the youths are properly engaged and empowered, they will defend this country and its democracy against retrogressive elements.” Anambra guber: Andy Uba dismissies report of non-purchase of APC forms by aspirants