One Ugochukwu Unadumene has been sentenced to life imprisonment without an option of fine by a Minna High Court for allegedly raping a female Youth Corps member in the forest in Agaie, Agaie local government area of Niger State. He was also sentenced to one year in prison for voluntarily causing hurt without provocation, his convictions are to run concurrently. Making the disclosure, the Niger State Police Public Relations Officer, PRO, DSP Wasiu Abiodun in Minna said the suspect’s application for allocutus was taken and refused Unadumene of Ekosa village in Agaie area was reported to the police division in Agaie on May 3, 2021, for allegedly commiting the offence against the victim. He explained that the female youth corper, serving at Lapai was conveyed on a motorcycle last month by the suspect along Lapai-Agaie road and was criminally assaulted and raped after he diverted into a forest. The state police image maker said, “It would be recalled that on 03/05/2018 at about 2300hrs, an incident of rape was reported at Agaie division that a female youth corper serving at Lapai who was conveyed on a motorcycle by the suspect along Lapai-Agaie road was criminally assaulted and raped by the rider (suspect) after diverting into a forest.” He said the suspect was apprehended and investigated by Agaie division and later transferred to SCID Minna. Abiodun further revealed that on arrival, the Command filed two charges against the suspect before the High Court Minna for prosecution, while judgement was passed on the 22nd June 2021. “Witnesses were invited eight (8) in proof of the allegation while the accused person entered into his defence and denied the allegation.
But the presiding Judge sitting at High Court Minna on 22/06/2021 held that the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and sentenced the accused person” “Accordingly as follows (a)For the offence of voluntary causing hurt without provocation – sentenced to one (1) year imprisonment without option of fine. (b)For the offence of rape – sentenced to life imprisonment without option of fine and to run concurrently.
(c)His application for allocutus was taken and refused,” he added