An Osun State based human rights lawyer, Barrister Lekan Alabi has alleged that Taiwo Adegboye, a contender for Alawo’s stool has been involved in series of forged documents to trick the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola into pronouncing him as Alawo-elect. DAILY POST learnt that all the documents were forged by Adegboye to manipulated the state government at every stage of the selection process. Barrister Alabi who is the Secretary, Human Rights Committee of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Osogbo branch, alleged that four officials of Egbedore Local Government Area of the State, were in connivance with Adegboye to perpetrate this act after money exchanged hands. Alabi listed the names of the officials as; the Council Manager, Mrs. Olabintan Felicia Abiola, the Head of Administration and General Service, Mrs. Akinade Motunrayo Ajibike, the Senior Administrative Officer 1, Mrs.Adelu A. Aina and the Senior Administrative Officer II, Mr. Adiyeloja respectively. He disclosed that the local government officials who claimed to be observers in the minutes of the Abioye Ruling House, could not identify the year of the Alawo of Awo Chieftaincy Declaration to be used for their illegal process, adding that, “According to their purported minutes of Monday, August 24th, 2020, the four local government officials were acting on the obsolete 1957 Alawo of Awo Chieftaincy Declaration, while the 1978 Alawo of Awo Chieftaincy Declaration was in use since 1978 till date. “But our client, believed that his Ruling House (Abioye) under the Headship of Prince Abdulkareem Adegboye were not called into any meeting anywhere, whatsoever on the acclaimed date of August 24th, 2020 in respect of filling the vacant stool of Alawo or in selecting any crown prince between princes Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman and Taiwo Adegboye who both obtained the form from their Ruling House (Abioye). ”It is now clear that Taiwo Adegboye and his co-travellers cooked the so-called Abioye Ruling House minutes of the purported selection meeting of August 24th, 2020 with the shown evidence of different thumbprint impressions and signatures of the Head of Abioye Ruling House and Secretary, Alhaji (Prince) Kareem Adegboye and Prince Hamzat Abidoye, on different documents in respect of Taiwo Rasaq Adegboye’s purported selection claim. “Also, the younger brother of our client, Taiwo Adegboye went ahead to forge the thumb printing and signature of the Head of Abioye Ruling House, Alhaji Abdulkareem Adegboye and that of the Aecretary, Prince Hamzat Abidoye respectively, in his desperate bid to mislead the State Government under the leadership of Governor Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola and the Appellate Court sitting in Akure, the Ondo State Capital, with the sole aim of getting justice through dishonest and fraudulent manner on Alawo stool as it was discovered in his BOND TO PROSECUTE APPEAL on suit No: HOS/084/2020. “But it is also our belief that the issue of forgery and perjury discovered in the illegal process of the purported selection of Taiwo Adegboye as Alawo-elect would soon be settled by the security agents and the court of competent jurisdiction as any house built on falsehood will definitely collapse.” Alabi who is a Solicitor to one of the two contenders for Alawo’s stool, Prince Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman, explained in the petition dated 3rd of June, 2021, titled: Complaint against the selection of Warrant Chiefs in respect of Alawo of Awo stool, which was forwarded to Governor Oyetola and other concerned authorities, including security agents in the state. He also explained how Adegboye plotted to use fake and forged documents to become a monarch through a dishonest and fraudulent manner in the town. The petitioner also referred to their earlier letter of complaint dated 23rd of February, 2021 to the State Governor and others, on their defiance to a State High Court order dated August 27th, 2020, in suit No: HED /26/2020, delivered by Justice M.O. Agboola that all the parties should maintain status quo pending the determination of the suit before the Court. He said while the other parties in the suit obeyed the ruling of the State High Court, the Abiola-Lamby led administration with the aforementioned local government officials claimed to go ahead with the “illegal” selection of Taiwo Adegboye as Alawo-elect on September 2nd, 2020. According to the petition; “It is our belief that ignorance is not known to any law of the land and may we state that the biased act of the immediate past Council boss of Egbedore Local Government Area of Osun State is repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience. “It is also on record that the immediate past Chairman and Legislative Leader of Egbedore Local Government Area of the State, Olayiwola Abiola-Lamby and Taiwo Adegboye respectively, were in the know of a fake letter written to the then Council Chairman by a fake organisation that is not known to Awo Chieftaincy, on which the same Abiola-Lamby acted upon to inform the State Government on the final burial rite of the late monarch, Oba Musa Olatunbosun Adebayo, without the knowledge of the living kingmakers, that is, Balogun and Jagun of Awoland and upon which the State Government through the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice approved five illegal Warrant Chiefs. This misleading act of the two immediate past political office holders in Egbedore Local Government Area almost led to a civil unrest in Awo community. “Local Government officials also misled the Awo community by insisting that only Taiwo Adegboye obtained the Expression Of Interest form in Alawo stool in 2020, while the records of the Local Government shows that, only two Crown Princes obtained the form from Abioye Ruling House under the Headship of Prince Abdulkareem Adegboye, the two persons were from Jogunade family (not known to any Awo Chieftaincy Declaration),one person from Akinsilo Ruling House (immediate past) and the last one person from Ede and this made six persons (two legal and four illegal) to obtain the Expression Of Interest forms in respect of filling the vacant stool of Alawo after the reign and death of Oba Musa Olatunbosun Adebayo from Akinsilo Ruling House (immediate past) on June 24th, 2020, as it was also shown on their purported ballot papers used for illegal selection of Taiwo Adegboye.” Reacting Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman stated that the truth must always prevail adding that it was a matter of perjury and forgery which is criminal in nature. He explained that Taiwo Adegboye was his younger brother but insisted that the police and other security agencies should be allowed to properly investigate the matter and unravel the perpetrators for subsequent prosecution. Reacting, Taiwo Adegboye in a recorded telephone chat with DAILY POST stated that it was a family matter, adding that the person who came up with the allegation is his brother. He explained that he just got a written copy of the allegation on Tuesday and after going through the allegation levelled against him, he reached a conclusion that they were all lies. “It is a family matter and we are going to resolve it. My brother and I have no issues. He is a respected brother and we are one. I don’t want to subject the issue to public debate. “You know once in a while, siblings quarrel. Our fathers are on top of it and we are going to resolve it,” he said. 