My attention has been drawn to the joint statement from the Diplomatic Missions Of Canada, the European Union (Delegation To Nigeria), the Republic Of Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States Of America” over the suspension of Twitter and proposals for registration or regulation requirements for social media in Nigeria. The ‘ joint statement’ is a direct foreign cyber interference in Nigeria (which may relate to the 2023 general elections in Nigeria), simpliciter. The first point to be made is that the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a sovereign nation under God with enabling laws and democratic processes. By law, the fundamental human right to freedom of expression guaranteed by virtue of Section 39, Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is not absolute and has been derogated by Section 45 (1) thereof vide the National Broadcasting Commission Act, Nigerian Communications Commission Act and various other legislations enacted by the National Assembly in the interest of defence, public safety, public order, public morality, the welfare of persons who have not attained the age of eighteen years (children), and for the purpose of protecting the rights and freedom of other persons. Secondly, #Twitter Inc. is an alien or foreign company carrying out business and earning taxable income in Nigeria without taking the necessary steps to obtain incorporation as a separate entity in Nigeria. This is criminal. I know as a fact that Twitter operates registered physical offices under relevant regulations (statutes) in the US, UK, Ireland, Canada (See Landmark Ruling Held: Canadian Laws Applies to #Twitter ), then why not Nigeria if not a semblance of racism or neo colonialism? Insofar #Twitter fails to comply with the clear and unambiguous requirements of Section 80 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020, the US social media company commits an offence in Nigeria, and must not be allowed to operate anywhere within Nigeria’s cyberspace. Statement by KeneChukwu Okeke, Human Rights Activist, M. Juris.