A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Enugu State, Barr. Ejikeme Ugwu has urged the people of the South-East to sheath their sword and support the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Ugwu spoke amid the ongoing security challenges in the zone and the rising agitation for Biafra. The people of the region are also lamenting what they have described as total exclusion from the President Buhari government. But Ugwu while speaking with journalists at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, said the current administration had done visible projects in the South-East more than the 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, put together. I’ve started asking God to remove President Buhari – Bishop Wale Oke “Let’s start from this Airport where we are now. During the PDP government, almost all the aviation ministers we had were from this part of the country, but what did they do concerning this airport? Nothing. Our people cried, wailed on top of their voices that this airport was a death trap, nobody listened to them until the APC came on board and today, we can boast of the best runway in the country. “In terms of road infrastructure, it is also a shame that the PDP in its 16 years rule never completed one kilometre of road in the major Expressways in the South-East. Both the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway and the Enugu-Port-Harcourt Expressway were valleys of death for years and the PDP did nothing about it. “You can see that it is not just about giving appointments because during the time in question, our people were everything in government but what did they do with it? They merely had their private pockets empowered. NDDC: Akpabio appeals to protesting Ijaw youths for peace “Now we can see the quality of work being done on those roads courtesy of the Buhari administration. We can go on and on mentioning the litany of Federal Government projects in the South-East, including the 2nd Niger Bridge which for the first time is becoming a reality. “The federal government currently is doing over 40 projects in the south East. Our women in the rural areas are making money through the school feeding program. “There is also the opening of rural areas through RAMP projects. So, I’m advising our youths to key into the agricultural revolution of Mr. President. “Let’s face the facts on ground and shield sentiments; as a people, we have benefited more from PMB. “Having said this, I am calling on our people to have a broad mind in their assessment of this government. The notion that Buhari hates Ndigbo should be jettisoned completely,” he advocated. Ozekhome to Southern Govs: Nigeria doesn’t need Confab