The All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Imo State has advised the Federal Government to channel its powers in proffering solutions to Nigeria’s many problems rather than chasing shadows by going after one man who is genuinely requesting for freedom of his people. The party in the state spoke through its chairman, John Iwuala during an interview with DAILY POST. Iwuala said the rearrest of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu will not solve Nigeria’s problems, rather, it would worsen them. “The federal government should, first of all, tackle the root cause of Kanu’s agitation and also look into other issues confronting the country, he explained “What Nnamdi Kanu is fighting for is genuine and the best way to go about it is to dialogue with the secessionist group and that solves the problem. “It is a shame that the Federal Government is bent on bringing down one man, whilst there are so many terrorist groups killing thousands of people in the country. “Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram are now sacred cows while IPOB which is genuinely requesting for freedom is proscribed as a terrorist group. “It is a shame that many Nigerians are celebrating the rearrest of Nnamdi Kanu while Ghana is currently celebrating the invention of a Toyota manufacturing company. Soon, Ghana will be producing homemade automobiles. Are we moving forward or backwards? “I’m not against the rearrest of Nnamdi Kanu neither am I in support of it. The point here is that the federal government should stop chasing shadows while there are so many issues there are lying unsolved “I am expecting that the court dispenses its judgment without prejudice but like I said earlier, the problem won’t be solved if the government fails to dialogue with them. This is not about using the military to intimidate the people. “It will not be wrong to say that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is a member of APGA, the only Igbo party in the country, because he used to be the Youth Leader of the party in UK chapter. “To this end, I call on all well-meaning Igbk people to rise up to the occasion and speak up against the marginalization of the Southeast and their clandestine move to put the zone to a political standstill,” he said.