The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has asked Biafra agitators to allow the people take part in the Continuous Voters’ Registration exercise, CVR. Secretary-General of Ohanaeze, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro made the appeal in a radio interview with Living Radio, monitored by DAILY POST, where he said the possession of voter’s card was key to any form of agitation. While noting that the mistakes of the past must not be repeated, Isiguzoro said Ndigbo across the world must take advantage of the current exercise. 2023: INEC to resume voter registration
DAILY POST recalls that the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, had announced that a fresh CVR would commence on Monday June 28, 2012, and that it would last for one year. Isiguzoro said in the interview that “the South-East is at the receiving end of everything in Nigeria, and it has been worrisome to the Igbo leadership, Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide. So, it beckons on us to mobilize Ndigbo wherever you are, and you have come of age, we are asking you, in the 19 Northern States, here in Southern Nigeria, wherever you are, go out and register. “You know we are disadvantaged based on the number of States we have in the South-East and it is affecting our voting strength but numerically, Igbos are everywhere, all over 36 States of this country, and behind the host of any State, the second population is that of the Igbos. “What we are projecting is that, there should be aggressive campaigns in 774 local government areas in this country. Wherever you are, you lost confidence in the process in the past, we are looking for Igbo presidency 2023, and the best time is now- voting strength, go out and register. “Now that they are doing Constitutional review, we are also advocating for diaspora voting. INEC should liaise with the diaspora commission and ministry of foreign affairs to use all the embassies and allow Nigerians abroad participate in voters’ registration exercise. The foreign missions must ensure that they provide facilities for such Nigerians to register. Nigerian political system does not allow transparent elections – CAN Chairman
“We are telling our brothers who are in self-determination struggle, that the best way, if you want to achieve anything you want to achieve is to have your voters’ card. The voters’ card is the power we have.” On how the zone would battle the issue of insecurity, Isiguzoro condemned what he called “sponsored insecurity in the South-East.” He stressed that “the South-East is known to be a very peaceful zone, the most vibrant investment destination, all of a sudden we started witnessing the destruction of facilities. “However, we will use our dialect in the newly established Ohanaeze TV and radio to make sure that our people are aggressively mobilized. We have all hundreds of affiliated groups to Ohanaeze and we have got them involved in this campaign. “The best for our people, on Monday the 28th, go out and cue. If the young ones can spend their money in BBNaija voting, this is time to vote out those you say are not doing well. Once you get the voters’ card, Ndigbo should wait for further directives.” On 2023 presidency, he said the Ohanaeze would conduct a search and make sure a credible Igbo man was presented to Nigerians. “We have what it takes, Igbos are known for merit, any attempt to thwart the 2023 president would not augur well for Nigeria, it will strengthen self determination, it will strengthen the agitation for Biafra. “Only a Nigeria President of Igbo extraction will unite the country,” he cautioned. He appealed to the INEC to ensure that card readers were deployed during the election to ensure a credible process.