An Awka-based Legal Practioner, Anthony Kelechi Agbasiere, has berated Sen. Andy Uba and his brothers Chris and Ugochukwu for allegedly creating confusion in the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Agbasiere was speaking in connection to the primary election of the PDP and APC, which held on Saturday, where Andy Uba emerged as the APC candidate while Ugochukwu Uba emerged the candidate of the PDP in a faction led by Chris Uba. The legal practitioner called on the National leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to cancel the just concluded governorship primary of the APC which produced Andy Uba, as the party flag bearer ahead of the Anambra November 6, 2021 guber polls. Agbasere alleged that Senator Uba connived with the Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, who headed the electoral Committee in the state to hijack the collective exercise in favour of Uba. Anambra guber: Andy Uba dismissies report of non-purchase of APC forms by aspirants Razor had earlier reported that the chairman of the APC primary election panel and governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, announced the outcome of the poll at Golden Tulip Hotel, Agulu Lake, Awka, early on Sunday. He said; “As far I am concerned, no APC primary was held in Anambra State on Saturday, last week. “If Andy Uba thinks he is marketable and saleable among other co-contesters in the faces of party supporters, he would have allowed the process, open to test his popularity. “I can say this anywhere that Senator Andy Uba convived with Governor Abiodun to hijack the election,” the lawyer insisted. He said the party should allow other aspirants who had also spent a lot of money to participate in the election to exercise their right as party men. Speaking of happenings in PDP, he said; “Chief Chris Uba is behind all the political crises in Anambra State. He is also causing division in the party. “These same Uba’s were the people that truncated Dr. Chris Ngige-led government and kidnapped him for not dancing to their direction. “As a lawyer, who has practised and has lived in Anambra State for decades, I can tell you, no APC primary election took place in this state. Agbasere advised the APC to use super delegates as PDP did to elect a marketable and saleable candidate if the party must sustain its unity to win the Anambra election and the 2023 general election respectively. No primary election held in Anambra — APC members drag Gov Abiodun