As reactions continue to trail the murder of Ahmed Gulak, a former presidential aide to ex-President, Goodluck Jonathan in Owerri by suspected assassins, a former Nigeria Aviation Minister, Osita Chidoka has expressed sadness over the gruesome killing. Ahmed Gulak, according to report, was shot dead on Sunday on his way to Sam Mbakwe International Cargo airport enroute Abuja after a visit to Imo state. The former Political Adviser was also the committee chairman of Imo APC primary election in 2019 where he declared Senator Hope Uzodinma the governorship candidate of the party amid confusion. Reacting in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday night, Chidoka, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), condemned in strong terms the unfortunate incident, saying that “we are embarrassed that his murder occurred in the Southeast and hope that the law enforcement agencies will go the extra mile in unmasking the killers”. According to him, “I believe most Igbo leaders and people condemn in strong terms the murder of their father, husband, and brother. “We are a peace-loving people and known for respecting and protecting our visitors. As colleagues in the Goodluck Ebele Jonathan administration, I enjoyed a very cordial relationship with the Late Gulak”. Chidoka posited that igbos are travellers and hence have a lot of respect and affection for visitors, using the medium to commiserate with Late Gulak’s family and friends, praying God to grant the deceased eternal rest. “I beg God to forgive his mistakes and grant mercy to his soul, “he concluded. Meanwhile, Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, has described the killing of Alhaji Ahmed Gulak, the ex-Political Adviser to the former President, Goodluck Jonathan, as politically-masterminded. The Governor, at a press briefing on Monday in Owerri, said the manner with which the politician was killed was unconnected to a political assassination. According to the Governor, “Ahmed Gulak was in Imo State for a national assignment. He came to Owerri with the Senate Committee on Constitutional Amendment. Being a humble man, he chose to travel incognito according to his friend who was with him. “Someone must have trailed him from the hotel to the airport. That is exactly why his gruesome murder appears to be a clear case of political assassination”. Nigeria has divided into two – Osita Chidoka 