Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) has called for the arrest of the police officer who allegedly shot Omoyele Sowore. Sowore is the publisher of SaharaReporters and former presidential candidate during the 2019 elections. DAILY POST recalls that the activist on Monday claimed he was shot by a police officer during a protest against insecurity in Abuja. SPN in its reaction, however, condemned the attack of the protesters. Buhari must go – Sowore reacts to assassination attempt on Ortom The party alleged that violence was so brutal that Sowore was shot. It further alleged that teargas was used to disperse protesters. The party called for immediate arrest of Daniel. SPN in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday through Comrades Abiodun Bamigboye, Acting National Chairperson and Chinedu Bosah, National Secretary said that it condemned the deployment of armed police to repress protesters against insecurity and poverty. The party then demands immediate arrest and prosecution of ACP Hyelhira Altine Daniel. Your consistent routine medical checkup in London, insult to Nigerians – SPN attacks Buhari
The party also demanded the arrest of other Policemen involved in what it termed as a barbaric act. The party said, “We strongly condemn the attack on protesters in Abuja on Monday 31st May 2021 by members of the Nigeria Police Force, led by one notorious ACP Hyelhira Daniel. “This protest which was called by The People’s Alternative Political Movement (TPAP-M) against the alarming state of insecurity in the country was visited with violence by members of the Nigeria Police Force “The violence was so brutal that Omoyele Sowore, activist and former presidential candidate in the last general elections, was shot and teargas was used to disperse protesters. “This shows that the Buhari-led failed regime is prepared to continue to clamp down on the democratic rights of Nigerians to peaceful assembly. “Again while the huge number of security forces the regime often deployed to repress harmless and peaceful protests is a reflection of the intolerance of the Buhari pro-capitalist government, it also underscores its complete bankruptcy and failure “We hold that such a huge number of security forces could have been better deployed to address the spate of insecurity ravaging the country vis and vis banditry kidnapping, terrorism etc “It is in the light of this, the SPN condemns the deployment of armed police to repress Abuja protest against insecurity and poverty and demands immediate arrest and prosecution of ACP Hyelhira Altine Daniel and other officers involved in the barbaric act of shooting Omoyele Sowore and using violence to disperse protesters who were only exercising their democratic rights.” Return all salaries, allowances – SPN tells Oyo ex-caretaker committee members