As the prices of food and other products increase unabated, the Ekiti State House of Assembly, is to pass a bill to check the extortionate activities of traders and suppliers of goods in the state. The Assembly passed two other bills at the House plenary in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday
The bills were the Ekiti State Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene Sector Bill, 2021, and a bill for a law for the establishment of Ekiti State Audit Service Commission and the office of the Auditors General for State and Local Governments and other Matters connected therewith, 2021. The bill tagged : ” Ekiti State Consumer Protection Bill, according to the Speaker, Hon Funminiyi Afuye, would help in checkmating the activities of extortionists and shylocks in the system when passed and assented to. After a thorough debate and consideration, the Consumer Protection bill was committed to the House Committee on Investment, Trade and Industry, while the Committee on Judiciary and Legal Matters was mandated to work on the Victims Charter bill, 2021. In the same vein, the Committee on Finance and Appropriations was saddled with the responsibility of scrutinising the State Economic Development Council bill, 2021. Explaining the values interest in the bills, the Speaker remarked that the Consumer Protection bill was aimed at protecting the masses of Ekiti from shylock marketers, who usually hiked prices of foodstuffs and other commodities . “I urge the Committees to speedily work on the Consumer Protection bill and that of the Economic Development Council bill, and report back to the whole House within two weeks. These bills are very dear to our state and we need to work hard to protect our citizens”, Afuye said. During the proceeding, the Chairman of the House Committee on Public Utilities, Hon Michael Arubu presented his committee report on the water and sanitation bill, while the Chairman, Public Accounts Committee, Hon Akin Oso did same for a bill for the establishment of the Auditors General for State and Local Governments Bill. Arubu said the Water and Sanitation bill seeks to improve water management to boost safe and affordable driinking water, as well as end open defecation and provide access to sanitation and hygiene in the state. While Hon.Oso clarified that the State Audit bill, 2014 stands repealed with the approval of the establishment of the State Audit Service Commission and the offices of Auditors General for State and Local Governments bill,2021. The three other bills committed at the House plenary after successfully passing through the second reading are the Ekiti State Consumer Protection Bill, 2021, Ekiti State Victims Charter Bill, 2021, and Ekiti State Economic Development Council Bill, 2021.