Oyo State Police Command has confirmed the midnight attack on Iganga community. DAILY POST recalls that some gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen yesterday night invaded Iganga, one of the towns in Ibarapa North local government area. Iganga is one of the towns in Ibarapa geo-political zone which also falls within Oyo South Senatorial District. DAILY POST gathered from residents that several people were killed. During the invasion, it was reported that the palace of the traditional ruler of the town, a petroleum station, vehicles and other property were razed. The gunmen according to residents invaded the town on Saturday night and operated till the early hours of Sunday. The state Police Command has confirmed the attack on the town. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Adewale Osifeso, in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Sunday said eleven people were killed. He also said several properties were destroyed during the invasion. He explained that intelligence and tactical apparatuses consisting of police mobile force personnel, patrol units and other tactical teams in concert with Local Hunters and Vigilantes from the Community have been deployed to forestall further breakdown of law and order in the area. “On 5th June 2021 at about 2310hrs, suspected armed bandits in their numbers invaded Igangan Community in the dead of the night to unleash mayhem on unsuspecting members therein. “In the process, Eleven (11) persons including some of the assailants were confirmed dead, while some vehicles and buildings including the Palace of the Asigangan of Igangan town and a filling station were torched. “Consequent upon the unfortunate occurrence, the Commissioner of Police embarked on an on the spot assessment today 6th June, 2021, to critically assess the level and cause of damages on the various sites of killings and arsons. “Intelligence and Tactical apparatuses consisting of Police Mobile Force personnel, Patrol units and other tactical teams in concert with Local Hunters and Vigilantes from the Community were deployed to forestall further disintegration of law and order in the area. “While promising the prevalence of justice and registering the assurance of the Command’s sincere condolences to the families of the deceased, the Commissioner of Police wishes to appeal to the good people of Igangan community to trust the system and shun self-help in obtaining justice through a partnership with the Police, in the area of prompt sharing of intelligence relevant in the ongoing investigations.” Police arrests suspected murderer, Okwudili, three others in Delta 