BigiBet, Nigeria’s leading sports betting company, has partnered with The Gamble Alert Initiative, a not-for-profit organization formed to advocate for responsible gambling and prevent underage gambling to drive a sensitization campaign amongst students in Oyo state against underage gambling. Through this partnership, BigiBet will deliver an advocacy tour to secondary schools in Ibadan to sensitize students on the dangers of underage gambling. BigiBet targets to reach and sensitize over 5,000 secondary school students in Oyo State on the dangers of underage gambling in the first wave of its CSR initiative. The sensitization tour has been scheduled to start in Ibadan on the 7th of June and will run through the 18th of June 2021. The Gamble Alert Initiative whose primary mandate is to curb underage gambling, lead campaigns for responsible gambling, and help problem gamblers get clinical attention in Nigeria will work to provide clinical care to secondary school students who are knee-deep in gambling already. BigiBet Marketing Manager, Yinka Aghedo expressed the company’s enthusiasm for the strategic partnership with The Gamble Alert Initiative. “As a sports betting company, whose philosophy is to be a helpful brand, we are very particular about driving impact and doing the right thing. We are committed to doing something about the potential problems of gambling by educating everyone about responsible play and not shying away from talking about the problems with gambling. This is why we have partnered with The Gamble Alert Initiative to sensitize students in Oyo State on the dangers of underage gambling” said Yinka. BigiBet has also set up a GA fund dedicated to sensitizing youths in different parts of the country on the harm that underage and irresponsible gambling could cause. About BigiBet BigiBet, headquartered in Oyo State is Nigeria’s fastest-growing Sportsbook operator. Established in 2020, the company has expanded from its birthplace in Ibadan, Oyo State to operate in more than 400 locations across 16 states and now takes one in every hundred sports bets placed in the country. For more information visit www.BigiBet.com