Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government of sponsoring the insecurity in the SouthEast Region. The group also accused the Governors of the five States in the region of being complicit even though, according to HURIWA, they may not be putting in their resources as sponsors. HURIWA said that the world must be informed that the South East is now facing state sponsored terrorism with the direct link to Abuja’s seat of political power. The group said that the sponsored terrorism targeting South East is gaining ground because both Buhari and the governors of the region have failed to put effective security mechanisms to confront the terrorists for the reason that the armed Fulani kidnappers and herdsmen. Insecurity: Politicians sponsoring killing of police in South-South – Biafra group According to HURIWA, these terrorists, who may not be from the South East Region, unleashing violence across all parts of South East of Nigeria are being pampered by the political powers that be in Abuja. In a press briefing in Abuja on Friday, the rights group We need to start by correcting the President who made an unfortunate statement that was full of inaccuracies and characterized by hatred for the Igbo race. HURIWA noted that in just only within two weeks, Buhari had made two statements that betrays his hatred for the Igbo ethnicity. “The first one was when he threatened to revisit the South East with the civil war treatment in such a way that he bragged that he will deal with agitators belonging to the indigenous peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in the language that they understand which is widely interpreted to mean ruthless violence.” The rights group recalled that Twitter was shut down simply because it stopped President Buhari from using its platform to instigate hate crime against the Igbo speaking ethnicity. Presidency identifies those linked to Boko Haram, bandits’ financers in Nigeria
“Buhari then escalated his Coordinated attack against the South East of Nigeria by describing the region as ‘only a dot in the circle of Nigerian Map’ just as he pejoratively referred to Ndigbo as IPOB as if he is unaware that the ethnicity known as Igbo is not the other name for IPOB since IPOB is only a group of some Young agitators who are democratically agitating for self-determination. HURIWA noted that during an interview with Arise on Thursday Buhari had categorically stated that IPOB is Igbo, which according to the group, indicates that he is either deliberately engaging in selective amnesia or wilful forgetfulness. The group reminded Buhari that agitating peacefully for self-government, self-rule or self-determination are recognised under the international covenants on civil and political rights. The human rights group pointed out that saying that IPOB is Igbo is the same as saying Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, is Fulani.