The Katsina State Police Command, Friday, paraded three members of the Hakika Islamic sect at the police headquarters for conspiring and jointly having carnal knowledge of a married woman under the guise of indoctrinating her into their sect. Trouble started when her husband, Isiyaku who had been in Lagos for over one year seeking greener pastures returned to their Wardanga village in Bakori LGA of Katsina State and found his wife, with a four month-old-baby girl. Isiyaku who left his wife, Zainab Ahmed in care of her parents at Unguwar Dantalle village, Tandama, Danja LGA of Katsina State discovered that she was impregnated after three members of the Hakika Islamic sect from the same village brainwashed her and had sexual intercourse with her. Fourth wife stabs husband to death for impregnating another woman in Ijebu-Ode
Abdullahi Isiyaku – 30, rushed to the Danja Police Division and reported the development to the police. In the course of investigation, Zainab Ahmed confessed that she had indicated interest in joining the sect, of which they told her that the initiation/indoctrination process involves them having sexual intercourse with her which she consented to. “I told them that I wanted to join the sect and they said one of the conditions for joining the sect involves them having carnal knowledge of me. I agreed and the three of them did, and then initiated me into the sect,” Zainab said. However, the three Hakika Islamic Sect members identified as Tukur Danazumi 19, Abubakar Yahuza 20, and Rufa’i Sanusi 27, all denied having sexual intercourse with her but admitted initiating her into the sect. “We didn’t have carnal knowledge of her as she claimed, we only initiated her into the sect and all we did was together with her brother who is also one of us. “We know that the police is a home of truth, and they are able to bring out the truth in this case. “We implore the police to run a DNA test to help ascertain the truth of this matter,” One of the suspects said. The Hakika sect has allegedly been recruiting and indoctrinating adherents into their radical teachings which is similar to that of Boko Haram. Activities of the sect allegedly include non-adherence to five daily obligatory prayers, non-observance of Ramadan fast, promotion of fornication and adultery, among other things.