As Nigeria marks the June 12 Democracy Day, Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, CAGG, has brought to the notice of President Muhammadu Buhari the fact that many people who voted for him in 2019, are now in their graves as a result of insecurity, hunger and starvation. The senior lawyer, in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Saturday, said that after careful and critical appraisal of the current administration, one can logically and objectively conclude that it is a nightmare. According to him, “Buhari has indeed let down his supporters, he has considerably disappointed those who voted him in as President. “Very unfortunately, many who voted for him are in the grave. This is so sad. Buhari has failed woefully in his primary assignment to secure the lives of the citizens who are his subjects. “The daily massacre has continued unabated. A few days ago, 90 people were confirmed killed in Zamfara, 40 confirmed killed in Igangan, just to mention a few. “What type of administration is this that is too bloody. Nigerians are heavily disappointed. It is ridiculous that Buhari came out to score himself that he has not performed badly and that people should objectively assess his government. “This is ethically wrong. A student can’t assess himself, that’s the work of the teacher. It’s the Nigerian citizens that have the responsibility to assess him. “Speaking objectively, one can say his administration is a nightmare. No one should ever pray to experience this type of administration. Democracy in Nigeria is in shambles. “I think M.K.O Abiola will be in tears seeing what is happening to democracy in Nigeria. Democracy is in bondage. Democracy has been demonized. “The economy of Nigeria is , the rate of unemployment has skyrocketed, hardship is everywhere. Banditry has taken over. ” This is one regime that has made banditry a thriving criminal venture. How long do we wait to get respite? We are expected to enjoy this regime but unfortunately, we are enduring it. “One cannot but re-echo Sunny Okosun song of yesteryears ‘Which way Nigeria, which way to go? “I believe that Nigerians can’t wait to see the end of this administration. It will certainly be a very big relief to many Nigerians.” Bamgbose advises Buhari on appointment of new Chief of Army Staff