A war of wits is currently ongoing between the Green Party of Nigeria, GNP chieftain in Kano A.A Zaura who recently moved to APC and some of his former supporters. Abdulsalam Abdulkarim, also known as AA Zaura who recently joined the ruling APC, said he did so to support the political adventure of the National Leader of the Party Tinubu whom he considered as a Father. But his former supporters have warned Ahmed Bola Tinubu to be wary of Zaura. Chairman of the GPN party, Labaran Sani, from Dala local government council of Kano who addressed reporters on Sunday, said AA Zaura is not who he claims to be. Court re-arraigns Action Alliance national chairman, Kenneth Udeze over electoral fraud Labaran Sani who spoke on behalf of other party members including Shamsuddeen A. Bappa of Wudil local government council, Kabiru Ahmed Kyauta (Bichi), Abdullahi Tyjjani (Dawakin Kudu), Auwal H. Abdullahi Tofai (Gabasawa) and Muhammad Bello Ibrahim (Madobi), said they did not follow Zaura to APC as he claims. “He is on his own.” “We want the public to note that we didn’t follow him to APC. He didn’t support any of us so we bought our forms and made posters by ourselves. “Personally, I bought the House of Assembly form for N150,000 and Expression of Interest for N30,000 without AA Zaura’s support. He said all the forms of GPN candidates were bought by AA Zaura. It is not true. We bought our forms by ourselves and the receipts are available for anyone who doubts what we are saying. “He did not carry us along. During elections, he did not give money to our agents and other things. We bought even the tags that he promised but disappeared on the eve of the election. “He betrayed members of the defunct party. We want Tinubu who is the leader of the party to be careful accepting him. Reps move to investigate customs shooting, killing of five in Oyo “We want to alert the APC and its leadership that it is AA Zaura’s antecedents; he will fail them, it is his antics when he wants to contest elections. He had gathered all GPN chairmen across 44 councils in his house but disappointed them!” Sani said. In his swift reaction, AA Zaura said he came to APC with hundreds of followers including genuine politicians, such as Maihudadu, Labaran Zongo, Nura, Namadi, Bebeji and a host of others. AA Zaura’s spokesman, Dahiru Maihudada, said the GNP members lied. “He did not submit 44 names of contestants to INEC and INEC should investigate them for pushing for money politics.” The spokesman said AA Zaura scored more votes than any other GPN candidates and spent over N20 million but didn’t demand the money from AA Zaura. “They are trying to blackmail AA Zaura and this is not the first time. He was sometimes accused of 419 and taken to EFCC, arrested and taken to court but the court cleared him of any wrongdoing and even apologised to him. “They want to pitch him against Tinubu not knowing it is not politics that joined him and Tinubu. AA Zaura and Tinubu knew themselves for a long time. They are close associates. Tinubu calls AA Zaura my son and he calls Tinubu daddy. He joined APC to safeguard the integrity and interest of Tinubu,” he said. Sani added that: “Whether they like it or not, Tinubu is coming to Kano to receive AA Zaura during his official decampment. Reps ask FG to suspend planned population census over security concerns