Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. General Superintendent of Redemption Ministries Worldwide, Rev. Stephen Akinola passed away on Sunday evening. Akinola reportedly underwent a kidney transplant. He died few hours after the death of SCOAN founder, T.B Joshua. 2. The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has reacted to the recent remark by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo against the Igbo secession bid, describing it as hypocritical attempt to fool the nation. In a statement, CNG’s spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, reminded Igbo that they can only fool some people sometimes and not everyone. 3. Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua, a prominent pastor and founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) who was confirmed dead yesterday, may have had a premonition of his death as he reportedly made a veiled reference to it in his last official outing at the church. 4. Lawmakers of the Peoples Democratic Party in the House of Representatives have threatened legal action against the executive in the wake of the suspension of Twitter’s operations in the country. The caucus leader, Kingsley Chinda stated this in a statement. 5. Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams on Sunday said with the killing of over 50 people in Igangan town, Ibarapa, Oke Ogun area of Oyo State, it is evident that war is imminent in the country. He warned Fulani herdsmen and bandits to stay away from the Southwest. Omang C. Omang: Lawan must swear in Jarigbe as Cross River North Senator 6. N-Power has commenced enrolling applicants for Batch C Stream 1 of the programme. This was announced on Sunday by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. 7. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over the ban on the microblogging giant, Twitter by the Federal Government, saying it was a prelude to a clampdown on the media in the country. In a statement on Sunday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party accused the national leadership of APC as being behind the ban. 8. The District Head of the ancient city of Zungeru in Wushishi Local Government Area of Niger State, Mallam Mustapha Madaki, (Madakin Zungeru), and his two wives were reportedly abducted by armed bandits yesterday. 9. As poor power supply persists in many parts of the country, the Nigerian government says it is pushing ahead to ramp up generation by 2022. Special Assistant on Media and Communications to the Minister of Power, Aaron Artimas stated this in a statement. 10. Hundreds of members of the Synagogue Church of All Nations on Sunday mourned the passing of the church’s General Overseer, Prophet Temitope Joshua, aka TB Joshua. President Buhari, governors from different states and other Nigerians have commiserated with the church members and the deceased family. ‘You’re a liability to our government’ – Amotekun commandant tackles Osun CoS, Charles Akinola