Some gunmen have invaded Iganga town in Ibadan North Local Government Area of Oyo State, causing collateral damages in the town, DAILY POST gathered. DAILY POST learnt that the gunmen who were suspected to be Fulani herdsmen invaded the town around 11.pm on Saturday and left the town around 3.am on Sunday. Our correspondent gathered that during the invasion, several residents of the town were killed. Sources within the town told DAILY POST Sunday morning have maintained that the number of lives lost during the invasion have not been ascertained. Kanu raises alarm over alleged fresh plan by Fulani to attack towns in Imo The residents claimed that it was Fulani herdsmen that invaded the town, though it has not been confirmed if it was Fulani herdsmen that invaded the town as claimed by the residents. Oladiran Oladokun, Convener of Igangan Development Advocate (IDA), confirmed the attack to DAILY POST on Sunday. Oladokun who confirmed the killing of many residents during the attack, however, said that the number of casualties have not been confirmed. He alleged that the invasion was due to the banishment of the Seriki Fulani in the town. He added that Fulani herdsmen had been threatening to attack the town since the Seriki Fulani was banished from the town. Gunmen invade Benue varsity campus, kidnap students “Are you calling in respect of Iganga incident? That is how we saw it. “It was the Fulani herdsmen that have been threatening to come and attack Iganga because of the Seriki Saliu that we sent away from the town. “So, we have been receiving threats and they carried out their threat midnight. “They operated between 11.pm on Saturday till around 3.am today (Sunday). “We can’t count casualties now because it was not safe for anybody to come out now. “So, it was during daybreak that some people are coming out from bushes where they ran to. We are still counting.” Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command Mr Adewale Osifeso, when contacted promised to provide details of the incident soonest. He is yet to provide the details when this story was filled. Christian elders decry militarization of southeast, advises against unrest