The Police has said that no fewer than eighty-four suspects have been arrested for illegal manufacturing and distribution of vehicle number plates, banditry, robbery, kidnapping, and homicide-related cases. Mr Frank Mba, the Force Public Relations Officer, disclosed this in Abuja at a news briefing on Wednesday. Mba said some of the suspects were arrested for alleged gun running, illicit possession of weapons, unlawful possession of firearms and other offences. He said the suspects, including three females, were arrested in different parts of the country in April and May. Abducted Chief Superintendent of Customs regains freedom in Cross River Mba said the arrests were major achievements recorded by the police key operational and investigative units, the Intelligence Response Team and the Special Tactical Squad. According to him, the achievements had nothing to do with other landmarks, investigative and operational breakthroughs at the various zones and state commands across the country. Mba said that 45 assorted firearms, consisting of one GPMG rifle, 17 AK-47 rifles, 20 locally fabricated AK-47 rifles, two pump actions and three single barrel guns were recovered from the suspects. He noted that other exhibits recovered from the suspects were 9,899 live ammunition, consisting largely of AK-47 and GPMG live ammunition. Bamgbose demands explanation from Beechcraft plane manufacturers over crashes Mba said kidnap syndicates operating between the borders of Sokoto State and the Republic of Niger were among the suspects. He said the suspects had carried out several operations on both sides of the border. Mba said that the check revealed that the leader was also a convict from the Republic of Niger. He said that two suspects, including a student of the University of Jos, were arrested over culpable homicide. Mba said that three suspects were arrested for manufacturing and distributing illegal vehicle number plates. He said all the suspects would be charged to court upon completion of the investigation. MBA Forex is Illegal, we warned Nigerians – SEC