Former Zamfara State Commissioner for Development and Cooperatives Alhaji Abubakar Abdullahi Tsafe has recounted his ordeal in hands of some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for calling on the State governor Bello Matawalle to defect to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Tsafe said he was bashed by PDP members in Zamfara State when he saw the need for the governor to join APC and called on him to do so. His revelation was at the backdrop of governor Matawalle’s defection to the All Progressives Congress. Gov Matawalle shuts down defection rumours, attends PDP Governors meeting
He hinted that the governor would officially declare for APC on Tuesday. In a statement he personally signed and sent to DAILY POST on Monday the politician insisted that he has no regret for luring the governor into APC, adding that “he thanked God, governor Matawalle has answered my calls to join APC.” “As a chieftain of the APC in Zamfara I was the first to call on Matawalle to join APC in March last year. “I was one of the APC chieftains in the cabinet of Matawalle until it was dissolved early this month. “I was seriously bashed by some chieftains of the PDP when I first called on the governor to join APC. “When as a member of his cabinet, I was appealing to the governor to join the APC, a lot of people expressed reservations but to the glory of Allah, he has accepted to join. The governor ignored all calls by the PDP chieftains against me.” According to him, arrangements have been concluded for the governor to be formally received into the new party on Tuesday, adding that with the governor coming into the mainstream, Zamfara State would fully receive the attention of the Federal government in terms of welfare of the people. PDP’s Matawalle inches closer to APC after Umahi, Ayade’s defection
“With him in the APC, the success we are recording in the area of insecurity would be consolidated. We will fully have opportunities to harness the abundant mineral resources in the state for the benefit of our people,” he stated. Tsafe said Zamfara State is the next door neighbour to Katsina, the home State of President Muhammadu Buhari hence, it would be an advantage to be among the ruling party.