The Yoruba nation secessionists, led by Mr. Sunday Adeyemo (alias Sunday Igboho), Saturday stormed Ado Ekiti for a rally. Speaking at the rally, Igboho was emphatic that there won’t be election in the Southwest in 2023, saying the Yoruba race was already weary of the Fulani alleged feudal and political dominance in the country. In spite of the fact that Igboho came late into town around 5.02 pm, he was received by a large crowd of supporters and enthusiasts, who hailed the Yoruba agitator for his role in liberating the race. Before his arrival, a rally staged by different groups, led by Yoruba Nation and Ilana Omo Oodua, being championed by Prof Banji Akintoye, took off around 11:00am with a large crowd at Fajuyi Park via Okesa, Ijigbo and Old Garage area of Ado Ekiti, where they paid obeisance to the Ewi, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe. Sunday Igboho storm Osogbo for Yoruba nation rally Addressing the highly-ecstatic mammoth Yoruba nation enthusiasts, Igboho, said Yoruba will never be slaves again to any other race, saying the only way to actualise this is by having an independent country and regain freedom from oppression. Describing the present Nigeria structure as a contraption, Igboho added that time was already ripe for the race to wake up from its deep and long slumber and fight for its own emancipation. He said: “I am sorry for coming late and I want to really apologise for this. I went to a meeting with some Yoruba leaders that was the reason I came late. “Today, we are here to sensitise our people that we can no longer ensure the sufferings being meted out to us by Fulani feudal lord’s. We are no longer slaves under them. “The South has oil and water and other natural resources, but Fulani are the ones enjoying them. Most of our university graduates are Okada riders being what our politicians who tell lies recklessly have made us to be. Oduduwa Republic: Group rejects secession move, tackles Igboho, Kanu “Yoruba is the most educated race in Nigeria, but are these graduates getting jobs, no. Rather, our politicians would be buying motorbikes for them for Okada riding. This was wrong and would have to stop. Can they allow their children to ride Okada? “Today, they have shared everything that belongs to Nigeria among themselves. The President is a Fulani man, the Inspector General of Police, Director General of the Department of State Services, the Chief of Army Staff, Chairmen of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and Comptrollers General of Immigration and Customs are all Fulanis. “They said they gave us the Vice President, who was a mere spare tyre. “Let me say this emphatically, we won’t vote in the Southwest in 2023. We need a government of our own. The Fulanis are kidnapping us and collecting ransoms, killing and raping us and our leaders were watching because of politics. This were no longer tolerable “The next line of action now is that, we are entering the bush to chase away these Fulani herders. We don’t want them on our lands again. We will pursue them just like I have been saying”, he stated. In another statement signed by Media Communications Secretary, Ilana Omo Oodua, Maxwell Adeleye, Igboho added further: “Just like we have said severally, there’s nothing to restructure anymore in Nigeria. The Coup d’tat of 1966 and how a few bourgeoisies rewrote the federal system of Nigeria to suit their interest is enough reason not to think about restructuring or a revert to 1963 constitution. If reverted, the powerful people holding Nigeria by the jugular will need just Executive invasion to turn everything into their abyss of interest just like they did to the Republican constitution of 1963. “Also, the ongoing review of the constitution of 1999 is an academic exercise and a complete waste of time. It is just a usual way of providing food for the boys. It is a disaster that must never be allowed to happen. We at Ilana Omo Oodua, supported by well-meaning Yoruba people within and beyond the shores of Nigeria will continue to mobilise and educate our people on the dangers associated with our continuous stay in Nigeria.” Oduduwa Republic: Police ban Yoruba nation rally in Ogun