The Kwara State Police Command, on Thursday, confirmed the alleged murder of Olajide Omowumi Blessing, a student of the University of Ilorin. The late 300 level student of Agricultural Science Department, was allegedly raped and murdered at her abode, Tanke area of Ilorin, the state capital. She hailed from Oke-Opin town in Ekiti Local Government Area of the state. Ekiti stops monarch’s salaries for abandoning throne for three years Spokesman of the state police command, Mr. Okasanmi Ajayi, confirmed the incident to DAILY POST in a text message on Thursday. DAILY POST gathered that “The deceased stayed with her elder sister, who came back from work at about 06.00p.m, on Tuesday, saying that she had tried severally to reach her on phone without success, as her phone kept ringing. “She met the door of her apartment locked and could not gain entrance despite repeated knocks on the door. “She then called some neighbours who helped to break the door open. They met the deceased lying dead on the floor when they entered with her two hands tied to the back and her mouth gagged.” ‘Gov Hope Uzodinma is dead, God bless Nnamdi Kanu’ – Fr Mbaka The account revealed that “she was naked, with bruises noticed on her private part and her mouth was covered.” A note was also said to have been written on a piece of paper placed on her chest with a message “UNILORIN doesn’t forgive.” The “F” Police Division, Tanke area was later informed and visited the scene, took pictures and evacuated the corpse to the UNILORIN teaching hospital for autopsy. Confirming the development, the police spokesman said ” one University of Ilorin student, by name Blessing Olajide (f) was found murdered in her house by yet to be identified assailants suspected to be cultists.” “The Police Commissioner, Mohammed Lawal Bagega, has directed immediate investigation into the matter and arrest of the attackers,” according to the command’s spokesman. Tragedy as Ondo Varsity student commits suicide over alleged relationship issues