Magistrate Lukman Adamu of Gwanara Area Court in Baruten Local Government Area of Kwara State, has granted three suspected cow thieves conditional bail pending resumption of work by striking judiciary workers. He equally ordered the handover of five recovered cows of the six stolen cows by the suspects – Issa Faruq of Yere village, Woru Sika Sebo and Jobo Gorokunna, to the rightful owner, Alhaji Megiwa (complainant). The suspects were arrested two weeks ago by the Agro rangers, a special unit of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Gwanara Division in Baruten Local Government Area of the state. The suspects were released on bail on June 8, 2021 with the provision of three sureties against two weeks – June 22, 2021 for possible sentence by the law court as soon as judiciary workers resume duty from their strike action. Anambra police condemn burning of three suspected thieves in Onitsha The theft case of six cows was reported by Alhaji Megiwa of Biogberu in Baruten LGA at the NSCDC Gwanara Division on May 26, 2021 against Issa Faruq of Yere village, Woru Sika Sebo and Jobo Gurukonna of Gbongbonru village. According to the spokesman of the civil defence corps, Kwara State Command, Babawale Zaid Afolabi, a case of a Bajaj motorcycle was charged against same suspects by Abdulmaliq Yunusa. Alhaji Megiwa complained that information got to him that Issa Faruq and his alleged partners in crime carted away six of his cows
(five males and one female) on May 18, 2021. “They were eventually arrested and during enquiry, admitted the allegation against them and also confessed that they robbed an unknown victim of a Bajaj motorcycle on May 18, 2021. “Investigation and findings by the Gwanara corps division revealed that Issa Faruq and Jobo Gurukonna stole the six cows and claimed to have sold them in-between Chinchinku village under Gwanara district and Paraku in the Republic of Benin.” ”Following interrogation of the suspects, the complainant said he later found five of the six stolen cows in his camp on May 30, 2021 when he woke up without any trace of the person who returned them. ”In the course of investigation, two locally made guns were recovered from the suspects by the corps division operatives. ”The stolen Bajaj motorcycle was also later recovered from Paraku in the Republic of Benin through a confession by one of the suspects, Woru Sika Sebo,” the spokesman added. 3 cattle traders in police custody over alleged kidnap, killing of customer in Kwara