Voters have kept hostage security personnel and election officials at Kiyako ward in Birnin Kudu Local Government Area of Jigawa State. DAILY POST gathered that about 20 persons including ad-hoc staff and agents of the parties were rounded up and locked up in a classroom at Junior Secondary School, Kiyako, over an alleged plan to change the outcome of the election. Also five police officers and seven vigilante members were also kept hostage at the premises of the ward collation center. The state chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Babandi Ibrahim Gumel, while addressing members of the press at a collation center, said the election officials were kept hostage after members of the party gathered at the Kiyako ward collation center to witness the announcement of the results and there was no collation officer to announce the results.
2023: INEC to resume voter registration
“As a result, members of the party converged and kept the election officials hostage until what they had voted for was declared. “We are now waiting for the SIEC official to come and announce the whole result for the polling units of the ward where PDP won almost all the 19 polling units in Kiyako Ward,” he said. He said similar incidents happened at almost all the six local government areas where the PDP participated in the election. The party chairman therefore urged security agencies in the state to make an effort to ensure that the results are collated and announced. A resident of Kiyako, who gave his name as Adamu, told DAILY POST that the election officials were kept hostage in a classroom since Saturday around 4:00PM and they will not release them until the election results are announced. Kiyako ward is a political ward of ex-governor, Alh Sule Lamido. In a statement signed by Special Adviser to Governor Muhammad Badaru Abubakar on Media and Publicity, Habibu Nuhu Kila, said the Governor directed State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) to declare anybody who wins the election from any political party. The statement however urged the people of the state to remain calm and assured that the right of any voters will not be violated as promised by the Governor. Also Chairman of the State independent Electoral Commission (SIEC), Adamu Ibrahim, said the results would soon be announced.