The Pan Nigeria Presidency of Igbo Extraction Coalition (PANPIEC) and the World Igbo Peoples Assembly (WIPAS) have lauded the federal government and South-East leaders for the effort to bring a lasting peace to the region that have been troubled by killings and insecurity in the last few months. The commendation was coming on the heels of the recent security meeting between representatives of the federal government led by the Minister of Defense, Major General Bashir Magashi (rtd) and the southeast leaders held at the weekend in Enugu. DAILY POST reported that during the meeting held inside Enugu Government House, the southeast leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the sustenance of a united Nigeria where there is justice, equity and equality of all Nigerians. The leaders stated that the people of the southeast region are not disposed to the call for secession from Nigeria. However, PANPIEC and WIPAS in a statement jointly signed by their respective spokesmen, Pat Anyanwu and Chuks Ibegbu, and made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday, appealed to all parties to the crisis to sheathe their sword. The socio-political organizations noted that conflicts always affect everybody in the polity and asked security agents and the gun men to halt their hostilities which is affecting innocent people They called on the President to be the father of the nation and handle aggrieved people with fatherly approach and not force. The PANPIEC and WIPAS also called for factoring the youths and agitators in the area into all solutions to the crisis The groups disclosed that they would have a joint roundtable on peace and security in Igbo land at Enugu state. Meanwhile, the Board of Trustees Chairman of the World Igbo Peoples Assembly (WIPAS), Mazi Chuks Ibegbu has accused some fifth columnists of being behind the insecurity in the South East with a view to torpedo the Nigeria Presidency of Igbo Extraction which all Nigerians and Northerners in particular have been keying in. Ibegbu, who is peeved by the insecurity in the area and other parts of the country, advised Ndigbo not to fall into the antics of these fifth columnists who want to benefit from the crisis. “These political desperadoes eat from the crisis and benefit from it, “Ibegbu noted. He warned such elements to desist from such acts in their own interest. Ibegbu noted that agitations in the East should not stop an Igbo from succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 just as agitations in the North, West or Niger Delta did not stop their own from becoming Presidents in the past. “Agitations are features of life even in families, why the hoopla about agitations in the South East,” Ibegbu queried. He called on all the political parties to zone their 2023 presidency to the southeast of Igbo extraction.