A socio-political group, the Nigeria Peoples Forum (NPF), has described the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration as an unknown government. The group noted that the government in Aso Rock exists in air only as there is no evidence it is in charge of Nigeria. This came following the worsening insecurity in the country necessitated by the nefarious attacks by the Boko Haram terrorist, bandits, killer herdsmen, kidnappers and unknown gunmen in the southeast zone which had continued to claim lives and properties of the citizens. In a statement made available to DAILY POST by its spokesman, Ishola Babatunde on Monday, the Nigeria Peoples Forum (NPF), expressed displeasure that up till now President Buhari has not deemed it fit to address the nation on the security challenges in the country and the killings in Imo state and igbo land and all over the country by killer herdsmen and bandits. Buhari’s govt is disorganized – Afenifere The organization asked Nigerians to defend themselves and not wait for the government in Abuja who will not protect them. The NPF lamented the rising killings in Imo state and Igbo land and called for restraints by all the warring parties. The Forum called for the prosecution of all persons involved in the killings including security agents that allegedly killed innocent people. The socio-political body insisted that the false narrative that Northerners are being killed in the East was a mere propaganda by fifth columnists in the north to cause mayhem in the area, saying nothing of such is happening in the east. Buhari Govt already down – Aisha Yesufu reacts to Garba Shehu’s comment He called for immediate apprehension of all those responsible for the attack and deaths in Igangan, Oyo state. DAILY POST recalls that Oyo State Police Command had confirmed a midnight attack on Iganga community. Some gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen invaded Iganga, one of the towns in Ibarapa North local government area. It was gathered from residents that several people were killed. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Adewale Osifeso, in a statement, on Sunday said eleven people were killed. Constitution review will not solve Nigeria’s problem – Afenifere