The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently call his aides and officials to order to avoid causing social upheavals over the re-arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu. HURIWA stressed that for the sake of safeguarding National Security, peace and harmonious co-existence of the diverse ethnoreligious nationalities of Nigeria, the Federal High Court should impose a gag order, banning government officials and politicians from dabbling into the proceeding relating to the detention and prosecution of the IPOB leader pending the determination of the matter by competent courts of law. The group advocated that the gag order be imposed to stop politicians from inflating passion and causing social unrest. HURIWA expressed optimism that the court can renew the bail granted to Nnamdi Kanu since bail is at the discretion of the presiding judge and that constitutionally, accused persons are deemed innocent in the eyes of the law. The rights group in a statement by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko and National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf warned the security forces not to put the life of Nnamdi Kanu in danger in the same way that the then political prisoner MKO Abiola was poisoned to death by the military. HURIWA said Nnamdi Kanu’s legal representatives must never be harassed or violently attacked as have happened consistently since the matter was instituted. It also called on the British Government to send monitors to attend the court sessions to ensure that the Constitutionally guaranteed Human Rights of Nnamdi Kanu are protected. “We watched with considerable trepidation and disappointment the primitive way that close aides of President Muhammadu Buhari celebrated the rearrest and extradition of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and since his eventual re-arraignment before Honourable Justice Binta Murtala- Nyako of the Abuja division of the Federal High Court. ”Top members of the All Progressives Congress including Laurentia Onochie who is a special social media Assistant to President Buhari and one Mr. Joe Igbokwe amongst others have posted several derogatory and prejudicial comments on the social media and mainstream media to demonize the accused person Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in their attempts to put pressure and compel the judge of the Federal High Court hearing the matter Mrs Zainab Murtallah-Nyako to reach their politically motivated and predetermined outcome”. HURIWA condemned the failure of the Federal Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami to provide to Nigerians in line with the freedom of information Act, the fuller details of the arrest and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu. “This secrecy and the fact that Malami picked and chose what to tell Nigerians on how Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was picked up and extradited, the Federal Government has ignited a gale and unprecedented wave of fake news around the circumstances surrounding the arrest and extradition of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. ”The Court should take the example of how some sensitive legal proceedings in Great Britain are conducted, by making injunctive order gagging government officials and politicians from discussing the Court proceeding on the Nnamdi Kanu matters. ”Making a Gag order in this instance is not a breach of the constitutional freedoms of expression but is a subtle way of checking activities of warmongers who are planning to use the re-arrest of Nnamdi Kanu to incite violence and social upheavals around the fault lines of Nigerians.” “We warn that President Buhari should not ignite social crises by allowing his supporters and officials to continuously make senseless and irresponsible comments that are hate-filled so as not to create security crises for the South East of Nigeria because as a fact, Nnamdi Kanu’s Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) enjoy unprecedented followership globally”.