France will tonight tackle Portugal in their final Group F fixture at the Ferenc Puskás Stadium in Hungary. Didier Deschamps’s men currently top Group F with 4 points from two games, while Germany is in the second position with 3 points, followed by Portugal with 3 points and Hungary with 1 point. The Les Bleus are through to the next round and will finish first if they beat Portugal or if they draw and Germany does not beat Hungary. If France loses and Hungary wins, second place will be decided on the overall goal difference. Portugal, on the other hand, will go through if they avoid defeat against France. Fernando Santos’s men will go through to the next round if they avoid defeat against France. Portugal will finish first if they beat France and Germany do not beat Hungary. Portugal will finish fourth if they lose and Germany also loses. Following France’s build-up to the game against Portugal, DAILY POST evaluates the four key players to watch for during the France vs Portugal tie. Cristiano Ronaldo: The Juventus forward would be expected to lead Portugal’s attack against France. The Portugal captain is currently leading the race to land the Golden Boot at the Euro 2020, alongside Czech Republic’s Patrick Schick. Ronaldo, who currently has three goals at the ongoing European championship, netted a brace in Portugal’s opening game against Hungary. He won the Man of the Match award for the encounter. The former Real Madrid and Manchester United star also scored in Portugal’s 4-2 defeat to Germany last weekend. Paul Pogba: The Manchester United midfielder would be available for the action. He’s been in good form for France at the tournament so far. The 28-year-old won the Man of the Match award during France’s 1-0 win over Germany earlier this month. Pogba also played a key role in the game’s only goal at the Allianz Arena Stadium. N’Golo Kante: The Chelsea midfielder has been highly effective as a creative force for France at the Euro 2020 so far. Kante plays alongside Manchester United’s Paul Pogba in France’s midfield. The 30-year-old has been in good form lately for Chelsea, helping Thomas Tuchel’s side to win the Champions League last month following a 1-0 victory over Manchester City. Raphael Guerreiro: The Borussia Dortmund left-back would be available for Portugal against France. Guerreiro was impressive for Portugal in their 3-0 victory against Hungary some days ago. The defender netted a goal for his team against Hungary. He was solid in the defence for Portugal as he played the full 90 minutes against Germany last weekend, but unfortunately, he scored an own-goal during the encounter. The kick-off time for France vs Portugal is 8 pm. France vs Portugal: Griezmann pays tribute to Cristiano Ronaldo