At least six people have allegedly been killed following a clash between some youths in some parts of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. DAILY POST gathered that the six people were killed in a street fight that broke out between Opopo Yeosa, Abebi and Inanlende youths on Thursday. The three areas are within Ibadan North West and Ibadan North Local government areas, DAILY POST reports. Our correspondent gathered that the fight which started around 4pm on Thursday entered the early hours of Friday. DAILY POST gathered that the killing of the six people is coming about twenty-four hours after a fight broke out at Iwo Road area. DAILY POST gathered that the crisis which broke out between members of Oyo State Park Management System and some mobile phone sellers resulted in the death of an alumnus of Lead City University, Ibadan, Mr. Rahman Azeez. Some of the residents of Opopo Yeosa, Abebi, Inalende and other areas within Ibadan North West local government area, told DAILY POST that many residents were still in panic as a result of the fight. Though a resident of Opopo Yeosa said that six people were killed, another resident from Inalende told DAILY POST that twelve people were killed. The resident of Opopo Yeosa said five people from Opopo Yeosa were killed while one person from Inalende was killed. “It was a terrible film. We were preparing for Asri prayer yesterday when they came from Inalende. They fought and those from Inalende later remobilized. “They were still fighting, killing with guns up till this morning. What I can confirm is that five people from Opopo Yeosa were killed while one person from Inalende was killed.” A resident of Inalende, however, said that seven people from Opopo Yeosa and five people from Inalende were killed. “Seven people from Opopo Yeosa were killed and five people from Inalende were killed. They were still fighting till this morning.” The lawmaker who represents Ibadan North West in the Oyo State House of Assembly, Akeem Obadara when contacted, confirmed the fight. Obadara who spoke during a telephone conversation with DAILY POST on Friday, however, denied the killings. The lawmaker who confirmed that one house was razed at midnight said that he was not aware if anyone was killed. Obadara who is the Chairman, House Committee on Security and Strategies told DAILY POST that, “As you learned, so as I learned too and since that yesterday, we have been talking to security agencies. “So, I don’t know anything about killings. If they killed anybody, you should find out and know how many people they killed. Gunmen strike again in Ibadan, abduct female soldier, two others
“Nobody has reported to me that they killed anybody. So, I only know that one house was razed down during the midnight. “The owner of the house called me that his house was razed down by some hoodlums they cannot identify.” However, all efforts made by DAILY POST to get the reaction of the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Adewale Osifeso proved to be abortive. Calls put through to his mobile phone were not answered while messages sent to him asking for his reaction have not been replied as at the time of filing this report on Friday.