One of the governorship aspirants in the just concluded primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the November 6 election in Anambra State, Senator Uche Ekwunife, has congratulated the winner, Valentine Ozigbo, on his emergence as the flag bearer of the party. DAILY POST reported that the former Chief Executive Officer of Transnational Corporation PLC, (Transcorp), Mr Valentine Ozigbo, was elected the governorship candidate of the party in the state. Ozigbo polled 62 votes out of the 218 votes cast in the primary held on Saturday in Awka. He defeated his closest rivals; Dr Obiora Okonkwo who polled 58 votes and Senator Uche Ekwunife who polled 44 votes. Reacting, Senator Ekwunife in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday, commended the party leadership led by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, and those who played a part in the electoral processes culminating in the primary election. Anamabra guber: ‘PDP consensus arrangement too late’ – Ekwunife joins race She expressed gratitude to her campaign team and the various support groups and individuals within and outside the state, who keyed into his vision to reposition the state towards the path of economic prosperity. Ekwunife also appreciated all delegates, supporters and stakeholders who participated in the election processes for their commitment and support. The PDP chieftain reiterated her desire to seek ways to address the developmental challenges of our people and ameliorate the sufferings of millions of Anambrarians who work day and night to feed their families and actualize their personal dreams remain unshaken. Parts of her statement read, “I wish to congratulate the winner of the governorship primary election of our great party, the Official Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Nigeria held on June 26, 2021, Valentine C Ozigbo, and join millions of party faithful to give glory to God for granting us a peaceful governorship candidate nomination process. “In every democratic contest there must be a winner, and as far as our governorship primary election is concerned, a winner has emerged. I appreciate in a special way, our leader, His Excellency, Mr Peter Obi, CON, the former governor of Anambra State and the Vice Presidential Candidate of our party in the last general elections for his exemplary leadership. I equally express my profound gratitude to His Excellency, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife (Okwadike Igbo-Ukwu) who had taken me as his daughter and supported me in more ways than I had imagined. “To my sister, colleague and friend, Distinguished Senator Stella Oduah, OON who showed unparalled commitment to our vision to renew the face of governance in the state, rebuild and exemplify the capacity inherent in us as women, and create a society where both men and women can aspire to occupy any office without facing any form of gender discrimination, thank you so much! “In a very special way, I wish to appreciate my beloved husband and children for their love, support and prayers. My life and political successes would not have been possible without you. Anambra PDP: Saraki congratulates Ozigbo, appeals to other stakeholders “As our party PDP goes into a very critical election which will determine our collective future as Ndi Anambra, I wish to remind Anambrarians that PDP remains the best choice for the state. God is responsible for the affairs of all, He gives power to whom He wants. We submit to His divine will at all times”. Meanwhile, Mr. Ali Odefa, the Deputy National Chairman of the PDP in the South East, has assured that the party would stop at nothing to win the November 6 election in the state. Odefa, who spoke shortly after the announcement of Ozigbo’s victory at the primary election of the party in Awka, said the party will return to the drawing board now and re-strategize for the forthcoming election. He said with the conclusion of the exercise and the election of Ozigbo as the candidate, the party will embark on a fence-mending mission to ensure that all aggrieved members dropped their grievances and support Ozigbo in the November 6 election.