Ahead of the November 2021 gubernatorial election, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and ex-Governorship aspirant from Abia State, Emeka Kalu, has expressed concerns over the fate of the PDP in Anambra State during and after the exercise. The party chieftain said the fate of the party has continued to get more blurred in terms of focus, especially in regards to the present political activities for the upcoming poll. Kalu who doubles as the National Coordinator of the PDP Coalition, in a statement issued to DAILY POST on Wednesday, stressed that the money politics allegedly playing out in the party was making it impossible for the PDP leadership to pragmatically decide on who will be qualified to take the party’s ticket based on pedigree and ability to win the masses. He warned against the game for the highest bidder in the governorship race and posited that if such a trend is allowed, it will spell doom for the PDP. “Before now, I used to hear the lamentations that most leaders climb the ladder of politics and turn their backs on the people that fought for them. The truth is that such leaders always believe that the cash they threw around had taken care of your demand, and so he believed he owes you nothing, neither does he owe the masses he also bought at a huge price. This is the kind of politics we must all frown at, yet this is exactly what is playing out in Anambra State, he said. Osun guber: PDP expresses readiness, defends choice of Adeleke “The way things are going in Anambra will spell doom for the party (PDP). For instance, when all the aspirants are going around throwing money here and there, expecting to clinch the party ticket, whereas we all know that it is only one individual that will clinch the ticket. After all those money spent, the fate of the party will come into jeopardy because we created room for failure out of greed. “From my investigation, most of the aspirants are already approaching other political parties to see if they can swing over when PDP fails, in order words, they are ready to jump off as soon as they rock the boat. This clearly explains that these individuals and their support base will work against the interest of the party in the General election. “We need to choose candidates, not by the amount of money they are throwing around, rather let us look inwards and chose men that will work for the party, people that have loyalty, consistency and people that can run inclusive government”. He further advised, “We need to be careful working with these money bags that are throwing money around to get PDP’s ticket as we all see how most of them defect from our party to others for some personal aggrandizement. We, therefore, need to look beyond money for the sake of this great election. “The money you collect from these individuals is clearly a sign that you have sold your right to spearhead any criticism against them when it matters most because they have already paid. We need to change that mentality now if we must win in Anambra state”. Kalu, however, urged the Peoples Democratic Party leadership to work with party faithful and people with a pedigree to ensure the success of the forthcoming governorship election in Anambra State. In the same vein, security operatives have been deployed in Awka, Anambra State capital, today over the conduct of the primary election of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The heavy deployment is reportedly in response to the formation of another faction of the party, which, led by Jude Okeke, announced a separate date for the party’s primary. Meanwhile, journalists have been barred from entering the venue of the exercise, casting doubt about what the party plans to do, within the conduct of the process. The primary election started with accreditation at the Alex Ekwueme Square before delegates were moved to Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre, Awka for the primary election proper. The State Secretary of the party, Barr Tony Ifeanya, who spoke with our correspondent denied knowledge of any order by the leadership of the party to bar journalists. Osun 2022: Aregbesola, Oyetola lock horns as splinter group emerges