The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested Abayomi Kamaldeen Alaka (a.k.a. Awise). Awise is the leader of a deadly syndicate of juju scammers that operates from a shrine at Ashipa town, near Abeokuta Ogun State. He was arrested following a petition by a victim, Juliet Bright who lost N250million to the gang after she was tricked to provide money for sacrifices to heal her of an ailment. Juliet was introduced to Alaka by Akinola Bukola Augustina (a.ka. Iya Osun) whom she met on Facebook. EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren in a statement said what drew Juliet to Augustina was the latter’s post under the name, Osunbukola Olamitutu Spiritual Healing Centre.  Augustina promised Juliet recovery only if she paid N16million. The victim paid the money to an account belonging to Mohammed Sani, a Bureau De Change Operator. Afterwards, Augustina passed the victim to other members of the syndicate, notably Awise. Juliet later met Awise at his shrine in Ashipa town where she was hypnotized. Juliet subsequently transferred various sum through bank accounts and in cash to the suspect and his colleagues, until she lost N250million without healing. Acting on her petition, a team from the Foreign Exchange Malpractices Section (FEMS) at EFCC headquarters, on May 21, 2021, arrested Sani and Augustina at Egbeda and Abule Egba in a sting operation. Augustina, currently on administrative bail, led operatives to the Awise’s shrine but he had escaped arrest having gotten wind of operatives’ presence. Detectives kept tabs on him until he was nabbed.  Uwujaren disclosed that the EFCC has traced and marked a number of assets linked to Awise. “The assets include vast land at Ashipa town, Abeokuta, used as shrine to deceive the complainant; a newly renovated filling station named Alaka Oil and Gas at No. 2, Adeneye Street, Oke-Oriya in Ikorodu, Lagos. “An uncompleted event place named Alaka Event Centre at No. 2, Adeneye Street, Oke-Oriya, Ikorodu; uncompleted blocks of flats at No. 2, Adeneye Street, Oke-Oriya, Ikorodu, and a newly renovated storey building with boys’ quarters at No. 22, PSSDC Road, Magodo Phase 2.” The suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded. Insecurity: Ekiti monarch advocates use of African ‘Juju’ to end crimes in Nigeria