Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari at the weekend met with Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, and his Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Gambari at Aso Rock over the escalating insecurity in the South East. Briefing State House Correspondents at the end of the meeting, Ngige said they both briefed the president and made proposals to him on how to end the crisis. 2. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a serving officer of a law enforcement agency, Popoola Abayomi for selling assorted illicit drugs to students of a Federal university and cultists in Ogun State. This was contained in a statement by the director, Media and Advocacy, Mr Femi Babafemi. 3. Ode-Itsekiri, the traditional ancestral home of Itsekiri nation, is witnessing heavy presence of armed security personnels as burial rites commences for the late Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli. At the weekend, there was heavy presence of soldiers and policemen in the city during the cultural vigil. 4. One teacher and three other students, among dozens kidnapped from Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, Kebbi State, have been rescued, the army said on Sunday. According to a statement yesterday, troops of Operation Hadarin Daji, with support from the air force, rescued the four at Makuku in Kebbi. Brig-Gen Onyema Nwachukwu, director of Army public relations made the disclosure. 5. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Sunday disclosed that joint operations between the ground and the air troops led to killing of several members of the Islamic State for West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists. The spokesman of NAF, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet confirmed this to newsmen yesterday. 6. About 15 people kidnapped by bandits who struck at an Islamic school in Tegina are said to have escaped from their abductors while their drunk guards slept. The escapees are said to be some adults abducted alongside the 156 pupils of Salihu Tanko Islamic School in late May. 7. The Police in Benue State, early hours of Sunday, killed 14 bandits during a gun battle to repel the attackers from freeing detainees at a police cell in the Kastina-Ala Local Government Area of the State. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the State command, DSP Catherine Anene confirmed this in a statement. 8. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has begun the probe of Ogun State House of Assembly over alleged financial misappropriation. The Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, confirmed this on Sunday while featuring on a radio programme, Sunday Morning Live on FM. 9. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has said efforts are on to arrest the suspected killers of the Chief Executive Officer, Super TV, Usifo Ataga, in the Lekki area of the state. He spoke in an interview on Sunday. 10. A drunk policeman shot dead five persons yesterday evening in Enugu State, while four others sustained gunshot injuries. The state’s Police Command, in a statement by its spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, said the officer, attached to the RC Lotto Company at the Golf Estate, GRA, has been arrested.