Concerns have been raised over the use of unarmed security operatives in Tertiary Institutions in Zamfara considering the rising insecurity in the state. Findings by DAILY POST showed that most Tertiary Institutions in the state have unarmed private security personnel guarding school environments, a situation that has raised fear of schools’ vulnerability in the event of attacks. DAILY POST gathered recently that a gang of kidnappers had abducted some persons at gunpoint and forced them into a waiting Golf vehicle in front of the Federal College of Education, Technical in Gusau, despite the presence of guards. CCT Chairman: Police begin investigation on security guard alleged assault
The school’s authorities had refused to comment on the matter, claiming that no student was kidnapped and that there was no complaint from parents or guardians. Investigations also showed that security operatives at the State School of Nursing and Midwifery in Gusau, man the school environment without defensive weapons. A source who pleaded anonymity told DAILY POST that series of complaints have been made to the state government to provide adequate security to the school but to no avail. “The private security operatives are just operating at their own risk because they don’t have any means of self-defence” he lamented. ”It is even the school’s authority that pays their salaries and allowances, not the state, the government does not even provide adequate funds to run the institution. Court remands four security guards for alleged murder
He said the school’ management had mandated student not to be seen around the gate of the school due to the incessant kidnapping in the state. Our source claims that when the school had armed security operatives handling its security affairs, the school still paid N20,000 as allowances to each officer from its own pocket. He informed that the school authority had applied for armed security personnel for the institution times without number but that security agencies have continued to deny the request claiming there are not enough security operatives in the state. When contacted for comments, the Executive Director, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Gusau declined to comment, saying he needed permission from the ministry before he could talk to the press.