The Federal Government says it has engaged the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) in the tracking of gas flares as well as surveillance to ensure compliance with all existing environmental legislation. The Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Mahmood, who disclosed this said the development is aimed at detecting oil spills in the Petroleum sector. Dr Mahmood during a press conference in Osogbo to mark the 2021 World Environment Day, said the federal government was worried about the 3.7 – 4.0 percent rate of deforestation in the country. He said the ministry has engaged local and international partners to formulate policies and legislation that will bring the situation under control. Gulak: We don’t spill blood, assassination not part of our agenda – IPOB insists The minister informed that as part of efforts to comply with the theme of the 2021 World Environment Day, “Ecosystem Restoration-resetting Our Relation With Nature”, the ministry has commenced moves to transition to the use of hydrocarbons as an alternative to Ozone layer depleting refrigerants. “Already, the Ministry, with the support from the Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol, has an indigenous technology pilot plant in Ogun State for the production of high-grade hydrocarbon refrigerants, principally Propane and Isobutane, which are liquefied petroleum gases, for use as refrigerants in the refrigeration and air conditioning sector. “Prioritize and Enforce the Extended Producer Responsibility Framework; the Ministry, through the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), is implementing the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programme which has commenced in three sectors of Electrical Electronics, Food and Beverages and Battery Waste Streams,” Mahmood said. Meanwhile, Governor Oyetola of Osun State, who was a guest of honour at the event called on residents of the state and Nigerians to take ownership of their environment. He urged citizens to wake up to the realities of the implications of their actions in relation to their interaction with the environment. Governor Oyetola disclosed that his administration had commenced proactive steps to address unlawful actions of ignorant citizens of the state and their collaborators to save the ecosystem and the environment. Missing Alpha-Jet aircraft might have crashed – NAF