Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Members of the House of Representatives, yesterday, clashed over a demand by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus for reversal of the ban on the operation of Twitter. Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila subsequently summoned Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed to appear before the House over the issue. 2. The Nigeria Police yesterday dislodged the camp of Eastern Security Network, ESN, in Akabo, Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State. The operation was carried out by the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team led by DCP Abba Kyari and other security forces. 3. Popular Kaduna-based Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, on Tuesday, declared that bandits are tired of their activities and now want peace. Gumi spoke in an interview yesterday. 4. Worried by the alarming insecurity in South East and Nigeria in general, Chairman of Ohaneze Ndigbo Council of Elders, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has disclosed that he is spearheading a meeting of the northern elders and Ohanaeze Ndigbo to fashion out a solution to the problems. 5. Political, religious and traditional leaders from the six North Central states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), yesterday, declared their opposition to any plan by any ethnic group to break away from Nigeria. Director General of the Forum, Sule Dikeson, said they were tired of watching helplessly their people being killed by alleged foreign agents. 6. The Kaduna State University (KASU) on Tuesday suspended academic activities of its undergraduate students indefinitely. KASU Registrar, Mr Samuel Manshop disclosed this in a statement in Kaduna. 7. The Federal Government through its National Social Investment Management System has shortlisted 550,000 applicants for the final selection for Batch C of the N-Power programme. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq, said this at a press briefing on Tuesday. 8. Four Fulani herders, including a community leader have been killed by suspected members of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) in Oyo State on Monday. The Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso, said police officers were deployed to the axis to restore normalcy. 9. A suspected motorcycle thief has been set ablaze by youths in the popular Wurukum market in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. Police spokesperson Kate Anene confirmed the incident but warned that people should not take the law into their hands. 10. The Federal Government on Tuesday said one million Nigerians impacted by COVID-19 pandemic will receive N5,000 cash for six months. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management and Social Development Mrs. Sadiya Farouq stated this yesterday.