Chuks Ibegbu, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has insisted that Atiku Abubakar, Bola Tinubu and Governor Yayaya Bello should forget their 2023 presidential ambition. He called on those he suspected to be aspiring to run in the election to support the campaign for an Igbo president in 2023 so as to rebuild Nigeria and beyond. Ibegbu made the call during an interview with DAILY POST on Monday, in Umuahia, maintaining that a pan-Nigeria Igbo man or woman as Nigerian President in 2023 will ensure rapid development in all facets of governance in the country. 2023: Atiku speaks on campaign posters with Charles Soludo The ex-Ohanaeze spokesman called on all “political parties in Nigeria to zone their 2023 presidential ticket to the southeast zone of Igbo extraction.” He warned those trying to use “pro-Biafra agitation to tarnish Igbo’s clamor for the presidency in 2023 to stop such as secessionists activities in the north such as Boko Haram did not stop Muhammadu Buhari from occupying Aso Rock.” Ibegbu noted that Nigeria will witness uncommon development with an Igbo person as President, describing Ndigbo as nation builders. The Igbo chieftain further disclosed that critical Igbo stakeholders would soon start the tour of all parts of Nigeria to build bridges and meet all other key stakeholders on the issue. Meanwhile, former Nigeria Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has reacted to his 2023 presidential campaign posters with former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Charles Soludo. 2023: Saraki campaign posters surface in Abuja Posters bearing ‘Atiku for President in 2023’ and Charles Soludo for Vice President have been sighted at different parts of Abuja. The campaign materials claimed that only the Atiku-Soludo alliance can rescue Nigeria from the brink of collapse. Reacting, Atiku distanced himself from the posters, saying he was spending his time finding solutions to Nigeria’s problems. A statement signed by Atiku’s Spokesman, Paul Ibe, urged Nigerians not to be misled by the disingenuous plot because he knows nothing about the posters or those who may have promoted it. Yahaya: Buhari is President of the North – Ohanaeze chieftain on COAS’ appointment