TECNO’s Phantom X is coming! Do you live in a fast paced, heavy traffic city like Lagos? Then you know quite well that we were lied to growing up. No one told us that adulthood will be this fast paced and tough. As if hustling and bustling through the day isn’t hard enough, heavy traffic had to be added to the mix. But we are Nigerians, we are strong and resilient and we love the good things of life! We work hard, so that we can play hard. That’s how we roll. I mean, if you work hard, then you deserve the absolute best.  TECNO is set to release PHANTOM X, a premium smartphone that perfectly complements the pristine lifestyle that you have worked hard for. If play hard could materialize into a form, it would be this smartphone. With Phantom X, TECNO is set to bring users bold and extraordinary innovation in design, technology, and fantastic user experience, matching user’s astonishing qualities and successful moments. By combining inspirational technology and unique aesthetics, the new device presents to the world technology in the form of elegance that sits at the heart of the brand’s spirit of “Be bold and Be extraordinary”. This isn’t a surprise. TECNO is by far the most ambitious brand this side of the world. From the get go, the brand has never been one to settle. It would seem like they are always in search of what is next. They slay that, go back in search, and repeat the cycle. Seeing as the users have always been their driving force, deciding to take this bold and extraordinary step to offer a high-end brand is not farfetched. You can pre-order now before the smartphone actually hits the market. What’s even more perfect is that the pre-order comes with a great payment plan advantage and lots of gifts. Pre-order the new TECNO PHANTOM X now, and stand a chance of winning: – A Gimbal Stabilizer worth N20,000 when you Make a N5,000 down payment; – A Gimbal Stabilizer worth N20,000 and one Designer Backpack worth N10,000 for free when you make a 100% down payment; – EasyBuy Installment plan that allows you pay just N68,400 first payment, and a daily payment of N1,299. Pre-order starts on the 23rd of June and ends on the 30th of June, 2021. Pre-order here.