Oyo State Police Command, on Thursday, said that some suspected armed robbers have been arrested by the command. Police Commissioner, Ngozi Onadeko who paraded the suspects, added that they have been terrorising residents of Ibadan. She said that three of the suspects have been arrested. Oyo: Police arrest suspected car snatchers, armed robbers, kidnappers
The suspects included, Akeem Ishola, Mutahiru Animasaun and Sheriff Salawu. Items recovered from the suspects according to Onadeko included cash sum of Forty-Four Thousand Naira (N44,000.00). She disclosed that the suspects on 28th May, 2021 invaded the residence of one Ben Ama at Oke-Seni area of Ibadan. Onadeko added that the victim was disposed off his cell phone, a set of home theater and one Zenith Bank ATM. She further disclosed that ATM belonging to the victim was used to withdraw a total sum of Five hundred and seventy-two thousand naira only (N572,000.00) at a Point of Sales shop. Onadeko explained that one of the suspects, Sherif Salawu, a co-worker with the victim confessed to have masterminded the plot along with his cohorts. “On 28th May, 2021 at about 1300hrs, three notorious hoodlums armed with guns and other dangerous weapons invaded the residence of one Ben Ama ‘m’ at Oke-Seni area of Ibadan. Imo: Police arrest four more suspects involved in attack on headquarters
“The victim was disposed off his cell phone, a set of home theater and one Zenith Bank ATM which was used to withdraw a total sum of Five Hundred and Seventy-Two Thousand Naira only (N572,000.00) at a Point of Sales shop within the community while being held hostage in his abode at gun point. “Discreet investigation by operatives of the Command’s Monitoring Unit led to the arrest of Akeem Ishola ‘m’ and Mutahiru Animasaun ‘m’ in connection with the crime. “Upon interrogation, one Sherif Salawu ‘m’ a co-worker with the victim confessed to have masterminded the plot along with his cohorts through confessional statement. “Investigation is still in progress to unravel more circumstances behind the incidence.” Nigeria Police arrest 10 traffic robbers in Lagos