The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Sikirulahi Ogundele, on Thursday, led a protest against the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission, (OGSIEC) accusing it of meddling in the affairs of the party. Ogundele, who stormed the Ogun NUJ Secretariat, Okelewo, Abeokuta with other members of the party, said there was a calculated attempt by the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) to meddle in the affairs of the party by deliberately obstructing the cause of justice as far as PDP’s participation in the forthcoming LG election is concerned. Addressing newsmen, the Chairman intimated that the party had gone through a phase of robust reconciliation of all interests, adding that it had, through the party’s team of legal minds, provided verifiable documents to properly guide the decision of the electoral body. However, Ogundele said it was worried that OGSIEC was hindering a healthy political competition. “We are very disturbed that, without any shade of doubts, OGSIEC is obviously acting a script as written by the ruling APC government which is bent on avoiding healthy political competition which the forthcoming LG election presents”. Ogun LG polls: OGSIEC directs candidates on how to sign personal data forms The Ogun PDP leader said “there is no any form of crisis, rancour or disagreement in the party any longer,” stressing that all interests within the party now operates in total harmony under his leadership. This, he said, was as a result of the robust reconciliation which the party just achieved through the Sen. Bukola Saraki-led National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee. He spoke further, “We shall resist any form of an orchestrated attempt by OGSIEC to fan embers of discord in our ranks. ”Again, It is equally important to bring to the public’s notice that the national headquarters of our party and our team of solicitors, Ricky Tarfa & Co have sent all necessary documents and papers that are expected to guide OGSIEC from further progress in error. But to our utmost surprise, OGSIEC out of its blatant insincerity chose to look away. “On the strength of this, we request that OGSIEC stops further meddling in our internal affairs. We Demand immediate issuance of OGSIEC nomination forms to all our candidates (Councillorship and Chairmanship) without any further delay. We also demand immediate screening exercise for all our candidates by the obviously biased electoral body. For us, these are the only reasonable steps for OGSIEC to take to correct the reckless error which its chairman, Mr. Babatunde Osibodu has admitted on many occasions. “It is equally important for members of the public to know that OGSIEC, under the watch of Babatunde Osibodu is comfortably in bed with the ruling APC government in Ogun State not only to deliberately prevent our party from participating in the forthcoming LG election but to also waste the scarce public fund(s). “It is evident that OGSIEC in collaboration with Gov. Dapo Abiodun is on a mission to reduce Ogun State to a “One Party State” by shutting the leading opposition party in the state (Ogun) out of the election. Elective positions should be earned via electoral contest, therefore, Gov. Dapo Abiodun should not dish out elective positions as meal tickets to his party members.” Ogundele charged members of the PDP to continue with their campaigns towards the July 24 local government elections, threatening to drag OGSIEC to court if it fails to accept the list of its candidates. Meanwhile, the OGSIEC Chairman has said he would seek legal advice to identify the authentic faction of the party. He said on Monday that the “Commission granted audience to all the factions but will, however, follow the counsel of legal experts before making final decisions. ”OGSIEC has received a document from the aggrieved faction’s Lawyer and it will be dealing with that lawyer.” Ogun LG polls: PDP kicks as OGSIEC reportedly recognises Kashamu faction