No fewer than fifty-seven (57) residents of Oyo State were kidnapped in the last three months, DAILY POST reports. It would be recalled that the victims were kidnapped at different towns and locations within the State between the months of March and June. The fifty-seven victims were abducted between March 15th and June 15th this year. They were kidnapped at different locations in Ibadan, Ibarapa, Ogbomoso and Oyo geo-political zones in the state, it was gathered. DAILY POST had earlier reported how at least, fifteen people were abducted between March 15th and April 15th this year. Our correspondent also reported how the number of kidnapped victims increased from fifteen in April and rose to fifty two (52) in May this year. Though some of the victims had been released, they were released after thier families paid millions of naira as ransom. Among those who were kidnapped in the State in the last three months included quarry workers, farmers, commuters, female soldier, bankers, factory workers, hotelier, cattle breeders and wife of the youth leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State. Our correspondent learnt that four people were kidnapped on March 15th, 2021. The four people included two bankers, a palm wine taper and another resident. The four people were kidnapped along Ijebu-Ode/ Ibadan Road. They were released after the sum of five million naira (N5m) was allegedly paid to the kidnappers. Gunmen on Wednesday 17th March stormed a farm in Fiditi in AFIJIO local government area and kidnapped a security guard. One person was also killed during the invasion of the farm. Three people among whom were a couple and a farmer were kidnapped at Sanyo and Soka area on March 29th 2021. Our correspondent gathered that the couple who were farmers were abducted inside their farm located at Alabameji Village, Sanyo area while the other farmer was snatched from Soka area of Ibadan. Similarly, four people among whom were three workers of a quarry site and another resident were kidnapped on Tuesday, 6th April, 2021. Our correspondent learnt that the four people were later released after some millions of naira had been paid as ransom. In the same vein, three women among whom were a female soldier and two other women were kidnapped on Monday, 12th April. They were abducted at Onipe village, along the Ijebu-Ode/ Ibadan Road in Oluyole local government area. The victims were identified as Mrs Okeowo, Mrs Abosede Adebayo and Mrs Bola Ogunrinde. Mrs Ogunrinde who is said to be a soldier was kidnapped while driving a Toyota RAV-4, with registration number AGL 66 FY. Some gunmen stormed Ibarapa geo-political zone on Wednesday 21st April and kidnapped not fewer than seven people. One day after the kidnap of the seven people, gunmen hijacked an 18-seater commercial bus along the Igboora/ Eruwa Road and kidnapped all the passengers including the driver. In Ogbomoso, gunmen who disguised as lodgers on Saturday 24th April stormed Ajaawa, a town in Ogbomoso geo-political zone and kidnapped nine people (9). Among those who were kidnapped at Agbo Hotel included the proprietor of the hotel, Mr. Oyedokun Oyeniyi, his wife, Busayo Oyeniyi and seven other people. They were released after an undisclosed amount of money was paid as ransom. Three cattle breeders were kidnapped at Idi Ope, near Igangan, in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the State on Sunday, 2nd May. The trio were on their way to visit the person who manages the ranch for them when they were kidnapped. DAILY POST recalls that the three cattle breeders were later released on Monday, 3rd May, 2021 after the sum of six million naira was paid for their release. Our correspondent learnt that gunmen on Sunday, 23rd May abducted wife of the All Progressives Congress (APC) youth leader, Mrs. Arikeade Oni-Salawu. She was kidnapped at the entrance gate of her residence in Ibadan, at about 10pm. Our correspondent gathered that Oni-Salawu, who was returning from work, alighted from her workplace ambulance to open the gate when armed men suddenly emerged and kidnaped her. The incident occurred at Aromolaran area, old Ife Road in Ibadan, DAILY POST gathered. Our correspondent however gathered that the victim has been released, though the amount of money paid was not disclosed. Gunmen also on Wednesday, 9th June, 2021 stormed Ijebu-Ode/ Ibadan Road and kidnapped four people. Three of the victims have regained their freedom. Our correspondent gathered that the fourth person is still in captivity as at the time of filing this report on Tuesday. Police arrest suspected kidnappers DAILY POST gathered that the State Police command has arrested some suspects in connection with various kidnapping cases in the state. Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko paraded some of the suspected kidnappers on 22nd April. Onadeko, while speaking noted that the command arrested members of a kidnapping syndicate responsible for kidnapping along Ayete, Iganga, Lanlate, Eruwa, Igboora and Tapa. The suspects included Samuel Oga, Christian Abunka and Sheu Babangida. Items recovered from the suspects included one red boxer bajaj motorcycle with Reg. No. GBE 035 UX, one Red Boxer Bajaj motorcycle with Reg. No. FST 651 QC, five empty cartridges, six syringes among others. Onadeko further added that another suspect, Abubakar Rico was also arrested in connection with kidnapping cases in Igboora. “Armed robbery and kidnapping syndicates responsible for strings of robbery and kidnapping along Ayete, Igangan, Lanlate, Eruwa, Igboora, Tapa and environ have been apprehended. “The trio confessed to be involved in the crime and their confessional statement is helping to immediately arrest other syndicate members still at large. Onadeko added that Abubakar Rico had also been arrested in connection with kidnapping cases in Igboora.
“On 19/04/2021, at about 1100hrs, One Jamiu Rasaq ‘m’ age 41yrs of Ajagba Compound Idere was kidnapped at Ojamgbe village farm settlement by four armed men. “Abubakar Rico, one of the two kidnap suspects was spotted and apprehended today 22/04/2021 after approaching Abola village via Idere in Igboora to purchase food for his cohorts. Investigation is still ongoing to arrest others still at large,” he had disclosed.