No fewer than 7,000 members of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), in Oyo State have joined the All Progressives Congress (APC). The former ZLP members formally joined APC during a visit by leaders of the party to Oke Ogun geo-political zone of the State on Tuesday. DAILY POST reports that the leaders of APC in the state among whom are Chairman, Senate Committee on Local content, Teslim Folarin, Alhaji Mufutau Adisa Gbayawu, Alhaji M.K.O Olaoye, Alhaji Kamorudeen Ajisafe, Akilapa, Alhaji Audu Marafa, Alhaji Waheed Akinleye, Chief Lowo Obisesan, Chief Adegboyega Adegoke, Alhaji Shina Alabi and Alhaji Kayode Adanla had on Tuesday stormed the zone in view of strengthen the party in the zone. They noted that they were in the zone to seek support of the people of the zone in order to wrestle power from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023. Ex-Army Chief Ihejirika formally joins APC ZLP Chairman in Irepo local government area, Alhaji Yunus Kolawole who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, noted that they have tested the two major political parties in the state but decided to move to APC. He added that they joined APC in compliance with the Samonda declaration. Kolawole added that they have to join APC due to the failure of Governor Seyi Makinde to honour the 2019 coalition agreement.
Folarin, who represents Oyo Central Senatorial District while speaking, said that APC is waxing stronger day-by-day in order to take over from PDP in the state in 2023. He assured leadership of the defecting party that both the old and new members of the APC have equal rights. Folarin said, “We will do our best to strengthen the party and take the message of this party to the betrayed, maltreated and aggrieved members of the ruling PDP”. Why I joined APC – Ayade
“Even as you are just joining us, we have accepted you as part and parcel of the APC and we will not discriminate against you. On behalf of all our leaders, I assure that you will not regret joining the APC. “We shall work together like brothers and sisters to ensure that APC is greater than what it is in Oyo State.”