Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, in collaboration with the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), on Wednesday, donated some welding machines to welders and blacksmiths at Coal Camp Enugu, to assist them boost their business. The welding machines were handed over to Gov. Ugwuanyi by NIMASA, and the governor in his magnanimity and compassion directed that the equipment be donated to artisans in Coal Camp, Enugu, to assist them advance their business. Presenting the machines, Gov. Ugwuanyi represented by his deputy, Hon. Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo disclosed that the choice of the beneficiaries was informed by the governor’s spirit of compassion, magnanimity and commitment to the wellbeing of the people, especially the ordinary persons. Akwa Ibom: Gov Udom donates N60m to families of slain police officers Mrs. Ezeilo stated that Gov. Ugwuanyi did not only direct that the machines be given out; he also ensured that the working equipment got to the actual people that use them in their day to day activities. She therefore enjoined the beneficiaries to make proper use of the machines, urging those who did not benefit from the process of the selection (balloting) to exercise patience and accept it in good faith since exercise was transparent. Also speaking, the Chairman of Tricycle Riders Association in Enugu State, Mr. Benjamin Ikah, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for empowering the artisans, stressing that the gesture demonstrates the governor’s dominant interest in the welfare of the lowly in the society. Mr. Ikah maintained that the beneficiaries emerged transparently and charged them to put the machines to good use and always remember the governor in their prayers. Responding, the elated beneficiaries thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for his benevolence and commitment to their welfare, pointing out that they never expected such gift from the governor or any establishment. They promised to utilize the equipment to serve the public effectively and enhance their fortune. The Executive Secretary of Enugu State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Mrs. Nkechi Eneh, accompanied the Deputy Governor to the event. ‘N1.5trn NIMASA fraud’: MDAs now ATMs under Buhari – PDP asks EFCC to probe Jamoh