The Nigeria Police, Osun State Command, has said it has put in place adequate security templates across the state as all Nigerians and other well wishers all over the country are expected to mark the memorable day. In a press release signed by Yemisi Opalola, the command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), the Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokode has assured that the Democracy Day is celebrated peacefully without a hitch. Olokode stated that the police and other sister security agencies were ready to guarantee safety of lives and properties in all parts of the state during and after the event. Amotekun Osun debunks rumours of harassing residents While assuring the citizens of the state of visible policing, the Osun State Police Command also appealed for co-operation and collaboration with security personnel put in place to curb any act of crime and criminality. He enjoined members of the public to conduct and comport themselves within the ambit of the law and jettison all forms of rumours of insecurity being peddled, as the police in synergy with other security agents are ready and capable to deal decisively with any act of criminality that might arise. While advising parents and guardians to warn their wards against any unnecessary protest and procession which could lead to break down of law and order, he enjoined citizens to be vigilant and promptly report any suspicious movement or infraction of the law to the police for immediate action. Meanwhile, the Corps Commander, Osun State Security Network Agency (Amotekun), Brig. Gen. Biodun Bashir Adewinmbi (rtd.) has sent a strong warning to the people of the state to maintain peace as preparations are on to celebrate june 12. In a statement obtained by DAILY POST from the Office of the Corps Commander, Amotekun Corps, Osun State, the security outfit disclosed that a lot has been heard from investigations that June 12 will be bloody. Amotekun corps nabs four suspected kidnappers in Ondo
The Amotekun Corps Commander also disclosed that they have it on good authority that the planned protests would be hijacked by many who are ready to destroy and vandalise private and government properties. According to General Adewinmbi, “To this end, the agency does not want any untoward things to happen to anybody. “We implore parents and guidance to warn their children not to be used as agents of destruction or used to cause crises. The agency under my command is more than prepared to deal decisively with anybody who wants to destroy the peace we are enjoying in the state.” DAILY POST has it on good authority from impeccable sources that protests are planned for tomorrow, Saturday 12th June, 2021 to commemorate the June 12, 1993 presidential which many considered the freest and fairest election in the country and which was won by M. K. O. Abiola under the banner of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). DAILY POST also recalls that earlier in the day, the security agencies have embarked on a show of force to different parts of Osogbo, the state capital in a bid to show their preparedness to forestall any violence.