Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), on Monday declared that his group and the Eastern Security Network (ESN) does not patronise native doctors. Kanu made the declaration while reacting to a report by the police that IPOB and ESN operatives killed a native doctor preparing charms for them in Awommama, Oru East Local Government Area of Imo State. A statement by the Media Adviser to the Imo State Commissioner of Police, Mike Abattam, had said the native doctor, Pascal Okeke, was beheaded by ESN after charms he prepared for them failed. Reacting, Kanu insisted that IPOB and ESN members do not believe in fetish things and they don’t kill people of the Southeast. Kanu spoke through the Publicity Secretary of IPOB, Emma Powerful. A statement by Powerful reads: “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the concocted and ridiculous statement from Nigeria police that IPOB and ESN killed a native doctor preparing charms for them in Awommama Oru East LGA of Imo State, and burnt his house. “Let us reiterate once again that neither ESN nor IPOB has killed people since its formation by our indomitable leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. We also do not have any native doctors as we do not believe in fetish acts. Our trust has always been in the Almighty God, Chukwu Okike Abiama. ESN after bandits, terrorists not security operatives – Nnamdi Kanu
“It is ridiculous for the Nigeria Government to associate IPOB or ESN with their moon-tale narrative of a native doctor and charms. Assuming but not conceding to the laughable tale by the Nigeria police, does it make any sense that we will turn around to kill the same native doctor allegedly preparing charms for us? “The security agents should stop blackmailing themselves thinking they are doing so against IPOB and ESN. They should stop killing and burning the houses of people and blame their wickedness on IPOB and Eastern Security Network ESN. We do not kill the same people we are sacrificing so much to liberate. Spilling blood is not part of our mandate.”