Chidi Onyemelukwe, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Anambra says the party is making moves to harmonise competing interests ahead of the primaries. Onyemelukwe spoke to reporters on the outcome of a unity meeting held in Nnewi and attended by all but two aspirants. She disclosed that the attendees gave a commitment to work together to ensure that all competing interests are managed in the best possible manner. The parley hosted by Olisa Metuh, former Vice Chairman (South-East), provided the platform for the contestants to speak with each other and agree on modalities. Onyemelukwe lauded the party, the convener of the meeting, and her colleagues for coming together and speaking with one voice. Tinubu mocks Buhari says govt competing with bandits in recruiting youths The first daughter of ex-Vice President, late Alex Ekwueme, said the primary election would be a purely intra-party affair to be conducted with due process and civility. “I believe that this is the first of its kind, where aspirants have come together and collectively decided to limit what we spend on our intraparty consultations. “Prior to this point, it had been the highest bidder affair which to my mind, was beginning to make a mockery of the system and indeed of the reason why we are here in the first place. “Yes, elections are capital intensive, not just in Nigeria but all over the world, yet we cannot lose sight or focus. We need to have our hearts and heads in the right place. “This is definitely a good step in the right direction. What we have done as a party is that we have taken the bull by the horns and we have set a good precedent”, she said. Shoot order won’t end South-East insecurity – Onyemelukwe cautions police, military Onyemelukwe urged all aspirants to concentrate on the issues and how to make Anambra better. Fourteen of the sixteen PDP hopefuls were present at the meeting. They were Onyemelukwe, Chuma Nzeribe, Walter Ubaka Okeke, Ifedi Okwenna, Obiora Okonkwo, Chris Azubogu, Valentine Ozigbo. Others were Emeka Etiaba, Uche Ekwunife, Genevieve Ekwochi, Godwin Ezeemo, Winston Udeh, Godwin Maduka and Ugochukwu Uba. Metuh appealed to them to wholly support whoever emerges after the primaries to ensure that the PDP wins the poll. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed November 6, 2021 for the election. Imo attacks: Ohanaeze leadership visits Correctional Service Centre