The Nigerian Army has released new postings and appointments of senior officers. Brigadier General Mohammed Yerima, Director of Army Public Relations said the rejig is in line with the Chief of Army Staff’s vision to have the military arm ready to accomplish assigned missions. Those affected include Major General FO Omoigui from Headquarters Theatre Command, Operation HADIN KAI to Land Forces Simulation Centre Nigeria and appointed Director-General; Major General CG Musa from Nigerian Army Resource Centre to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI and appointed Theatre Commander; Major General OR Aiyenigba from Defence Headquarters to Headquarters Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police and appointed Provost Marshal (Army). Why Buhari appointed Gen Yahaya as Army chief
Major General IM Jallo from Defence Space Administration to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI and appointed Deputy Theatre Commander 1; Brigadier General NU Muktar from Nigeria High Commission Islamabad to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Director of Procurement; Brigadier General O Nwachukwu from Defence Headquarters (Director Defence Information) to Headquarters Directorate of Army Public Relations and appointed Director. The list includes Brigadier General AE Abubakar from Department of Training and Operations( Defunct) to Headquarters 22 Brigade and appointed Commander; Brigadier General KO Ukandu from Office of the Chief of Army Staff (Director Procurement) to National Defence College and appointed Directing Staff; Brigadier General IB Abubakar from Nigerian Army Armour School to Army Headquarters Department of Army Operations and appointed Deputy Director Operations. Brigadier General AM Umar from Army War College Nigeria to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Chief of Staff to the Chief of Army Staff; Brigadier General AJS Gulani from Nigerian Army Armour School to Headquarters 24 Task Force Brigade and appointed Commander. Also, Colonel KE Inyang from Headquarters Department of Army Logistics moves to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and is appointed Military Assistant to the Chief of Army Staff; Colonel OO Braimah from Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI to Nigeria High Commission Islamabad and appointed Defence Attache. Reno Omokri flays Buhari for appointing another northern Muslim as COAS
However, Colonel IP Omoke from Office of the Chief of Army Staff to Defence Intelligence Agency and was appointed Assistant Director Foreign Liaison/ Liaison Officer (Army). Army Chief, Major General Faruk Yahaya urged the officers to justify the confidence reposed on them. According to Yerima, all postings and appointments are with immediate effect.