The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Tuesday, made a passionate plea with the authorities of the Bauchi State University, Gadau, to revisit their recent decision expelling some students of the institution and appealed for their reinstatement. The Nigerian students’ umbrella body’s plea was contained in a statement signed by its Director Administration and Strategy, Prince Mohammed Sani, made available to journalists in Bauchi. Sani pleaded for leniency for the affected students, who he stated were found guilty having acted contrary to the institution’s ethics and values, adding that the expelled students are remorseful since their expulsion and have since turned a new leaf. He stated that NANS was against acts by students of the university that were against its ethics and values and urged the institution to temper justice with mercy in the case of the affected students. The body then made a case for continued support for the Bauchi State University, Gadau, by the state government. According to him, “Based on our consultation with students’ leaders and stakeholders in the institution, we found out that our students that were expelled from the institution were found guilty as they acted contrary to the ethics and values of the institution. “We are against the pattern of our students in the institution that goes against the values and ethics of the institution. We have hope and confidence on the management that they will temper justice with mercy. We equally call on Bauchi State Government to continue giving support to the institution.” Meanwhile, the association has passed a vote of confidence on the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Auwalu Uba, for his exemplary leadership capacity, tremendous contributions to the development, peace, unity and progress of the institution. Sani noted that the management of the university has been committed to the welfare its students, assuring that NANS shall continue adopt dialogue with the institution on students’ issues. “We salute the management of the institution for their commitment and dedication towards students’ welfare. NANS shall continue to dialogue on behalf of our students because confrontation cannot solve our problems. “We equally commend the Bauchi State Government for its milestone achievements in the educational sector and we call for more adequate funding for Bauchi State University inline with global best practices,” Sani stated. Information in this email and any attachments is confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom it is addressed or otherwise directed. If you are not the recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution or taking action in relation of the contents of this information is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.