Following the arrest of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, there has been tension in some parts of the Southeast over possible attacks by his loyalists. Recall that After over two years of man-hunt, the Federal Government on Tuesday disclosed that it has rearrested the self-acclaimed Biafran leader. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN who confirmed the development, said he was arrested by a combined team of Nigerian and foreign security agents in a coordinated interception. DAILY POST correspondent who spoke to some residents gathered that palpable fear has enveloped some cities in the region particularly, Imo State where the IPOB member allegedly wreaked havoc in the recent months. Recall that the group’s security wing which has been severally accused of attacking security operatives and destroying government facilities in the region had chosen Orlu in Imo State as their hideout. A corps member serving in the area who identified herself as Jennifer told our correspondent that they are currently in fear of what may happen next. No Govt can defeat her citizens, time to pay back – Nnamdi Kanu “Definitely they may avenge the arrest of their leader who was disgraced globally today. We are being careful, watching our steps. “Many of the residents have returned from work already unlike other days when some of them return at night. Seriously, we don’t know what may happen tonight”. Another source, Mr Ikechukwu Anthony who spoke from Aba in Abia State described the situation in the state as a “sober reflection”. He said residents including some loyalists of the arrested Biafra freedom fighter were shocked when they heard the arrest. Efforts to reach the Imo State Commissioner of Police, Nasiru Mohammed proved abortive at press time as he was unable to take his calls and could not respond to text messages forwarded to him. However, the Police Public Relations Officer in Ebonyi State, DSP Odah Loveth Obianuju who spoke exclusively to DAILY POST said scores of the IPOB members have been arrested following the arrest of their leader. She said the arrested members have confessed to many crimes in the state while dangerous rifles were recovered from them. When asked about the current situation in the state, she told our correspondent that there was no tension, stressing that residents were going about their normal businesses. “Everywhere is calm, there is no tension anywhere. We have broken their wing. Like the statement we just released, we have been able to arrest a good number of them and some have confessed to several crimes in the state”, the PPRO stated. She expressed optimism that the command would soon restore normalcy to the state. “We are working towards returning Ebony State to the usual peaceful people we used to know”, she added. Any army sent to Biafraland will die there – Nnamdi Kanu replies Buhari