Fast growing online marketplace, Owlet, is changing the face of digital marketing by helping millions of entrepreneurs expand their business, reach, visibility, and sales through two groundbreaking platforms; The-Owlet and The-Owlette. This innovative and easy-to-navigate digital market, can be described as the “Uber” for online businesses and has come to stay and further expand the frontiers of opportunities for business sellers, investment seekers and social media influencers. Now, with just a smartphone and a decent internet connection, you can buy, sell and improve visibility for your business from the comfort of your private space, at any time. The-Owlet is a social media marketing agency that specializes in social media management services for resellers. It bridges the social media gap between clients and their prospective customers, harnessing expertise on social media to engage customers with content, maintain the pages, and promote products to increase revenue. Business owners looking to expand through social media can depend on The-Owlet to curate a social media strategy for their business with the aim of increasing reach/visibility and sales. The-Owlette has a simple mission, to provide an easy, accessible online market to buy and sell goods and services. This means that customers can do everything from buying a local grinding machine to hiring a web developer for their latest project, hire a furniture maker or purchase their next car. The platform also connects freelancers to people who can hire them and provides an easy method for consumers to purchase their products of need. The-Owlette has been commended nationwide for providing an opportunity for young Nigerians to develop a side hustle by placing their products for sale and skills for hire. A statement from Olusehinde Elijah Kolawole, CEO Owlet, noted that, “Owlet was created with a simple vision to connect businesses to freelancers and empower people to live their work dream. We empower people worldwide to live their work dream building their business from the ground up and becoming financially and professionally independent. Over two million Nigerians have been empowered through our platforms and our aim is to continue to connect businesses to a community of expert freelancers who are available to hire by the hour or project, provide flexibility to work when it suits you, outside the archaic 9-to-5 day, and enable people to live their work dream. We are committed to innovation and excellence to drive more Nigerians to gain financial and professional freedom.” To learn more about Owlet, visit the-owlette.com and the-owlet.com or call +2347025356704. You can also follow the hashtag #MakeMoneyWithOwlet on social media.