The Chairman of the Enugu State Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Dr. Ben Nwoye has told aspirants for the office of the State chairman to ignore claims that anyone has been anointed for the position. Nwoye, who made the clarification during an interaction between the aspirants and the 260 ward chairmen, as well as members of the State Executive Committee, said the seat was not up for sale to the highest bidder. The Chairman said the party belongs to the people at the ward, who he described as the “true owners of the party”, and that anyone interested in holding any position must get their support. 2023: Zoning won’t decide Enugu governor – APC chairman, Nwoye cautions campaigners Some of the aspirants at the meeting included: Mr. Benson Eze, Comrade Adolphus Ude, Hon. Chief Ude Okorie John, Chief Dr. Walter Oji, a medical doctor, Chief Dr. Chiadikaobi Charles Chukwu, among others. Addressing the party members, Nwoye urged them to discountence claims that some people had already been selected ahead of the party’s elective congress. “I am here to give you the true picture, sell of forms has not commenced, until we hear from our national chairman, either directly or indirectly through the national secretary, until we hear from any two of them, any other story is fake news. “Also note that you have responsibility to organize your ward, no matter the story flying around, the party rests on your shoulders. Every ward chairman, you are the true leaders of this party- you are in charge of this party. “Election is not conducted at the local government, election is not conducted at the Enugu Capital, election is not conducted in Abuja, election is at the ward and polling units. So, you are in charge, call yourself a leader, don’t allow anybody to fool you, it begins and ends with you,” the chairman stated. He further told the ward chairmen not to be intimidated with claims that “people’s names are being pencilled down for the party’s elective positions. Enugu APC chairman, Nwoye douses tension as Nnamani convenes stakeholders’ meeting “There is going to be an election, you will have the opportunity to elect your own party officers, from ward to local government, to state, from State to zone and from zone to the national level. Anyone parading any list, it is a fake list, all of them will be exposed. “We will have a situation where true party men and women will be rewarded for the work they have done. We have people that will place the interest of the party above their personal interests, so we must all see ourselves as fighting one course, there is no enemy among us.” Nwoye, however, said the members must accord respect to some chieftains of the party in view of their status and contributions to the party. “We must show respect to people, either by their status, what they have been in life or by their contributions to the party, whether you like those people or not,” he said.