Prof. Kpamor Orkar, the Caretaker Deputy Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, has said an Idoma indigene should be considered for the governorship position in the state in 2023. Orkar told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday that he does not believe that only Tiv people should continue to produce governors of the state without considering the minority tribes. NAN also reports that since the creation of Benue in 1976, only Tiv people have been elected governor, while Idoma and Igede people occupy the deputy governor’s position. Women protest in Idoma community over coal mining as herdsmen invade Owukpa He stressed that Benue people need to consider an Idoma person for the position of governor in 2023. “The Tiv people who are the majority in the state must remember that they will not continue to produce the governor of the state ignoring other minority tribes.’’ He explained that the other tribes need to be given the opportunity to occupy the position of governor in the spirit of fairness and equity. According to Orkar: “This time around I do believe that we will consider an Idoma man as our governor, therefore the chairman’s position wouldn’t go to them again. “You know that the Tiv people are known to be leading the cause of minorities in Nigeria and JS Tarka worked for that. Benue: Ortom lays foundation for construction of ultramodern Ochi’Idoma Palace in Otukpo “So, here in Benue, I do not believe that we will continue having Tiv governors and be ignoring the minorities. “If tomorrow a Tiv man wants a position at the national level and is saying that minorities should be considered, people ask him, you are in Benue with other minority tribes how have you treated them? “So, I think they (other tribes) should be given an opportunity; if the governor goes to Idoma, then the chairmanship will not be there again. “It also means that one day an Igede person will be governor in Benue State.’’ ESN not after tribe, religion but terrorists – Nnamdi Kanu