The Niger State Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has hinged the growing rate of kidnaps, banditry and other criminal activities in the state to drugs. The State Commandant of the Agency, Haruna Kwetishe made the disclosure in Minna at a day lecture organized by the Agency as part of the activities to mark this year’s United Nations International Day against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking. Kwetishe explained that most of the negative activities in the state are fueled by drugs by perpetrators of the crimes, adding that the Agency will not relent on its efforts in arresting and prosecuting offenders. He revealed that between January and June 2021, the command has made a total seizure of 585,862kg of cannabis sativa, popularly refers to as Indian hemp and 113, 533kg of psychotropic substances as well as 273.39 litres of cough syrup with codeine within the same period. NDLEA arrests 231 drug suspects in Oyo The commandant said within the period under review, no fewer than 68 drug peddlers in possession of Psychotropic substances out of the 15 have already been convicted by the court. He also disclosed that about 256 clients have been successfully counselled by the agency. While warning drug paddlers, dealers and other merchants to desist from the dastardly act, the NDLEA Commandant, however, lamented that lack of funds has hampered the Agency from taking drugs prevention education to every nooks and crannies of the state to lack of funds. ” We appeal to the state government and other stakeholders to assist the agency to reduce the menace of drugs abuse in the state to its barest minimum.” Speaking, the state Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, who spoke through the Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Metane at the occasion applauded the NDLEA for its renewed war against drug abuse and illicit trafficking in the state, while assuring the agency of the government’s support in reducing the menace. The governor also admitted that 90 percent of crimes and criminalities are committed under the influence of drugs. He added, “and until all stakeholders join hands together to fight this menace, crimes and criminalities will continue to increase”. NDLEA seeks establishment of drugs laboratories across Nigeria