Former Big Brother Naija, BBNaija housemate, Brighto has come under attack for revealing his penis was swollen after an oral sex incident with Dorathy. Brighto made the tweet after Dorathy admitted to giving him a blow job during the Reunion show on Tuesday night. His tweet came off as unnecessary and immature and fans took to social media to call him out for making such a statement. Some fans queried him for not addressing the issue at the reunion show last night. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @StellaMarisAbo1 “ Brighto would have addressed it at the reunion, he didn’t have the balls to do so now he’s coming online to say thrash. I wouldn’t blame the lady for saying all she said, imagine after having an intimate moment with someone and the person acts like you don’t exist afterwards, it hurts.” @Kofoworola_a “Your name is Brighto but you are not bright oh.” @Iamladyqueenie “Brighto’s tweet should not be justified for any reason, that was low and no I’m not excusing the ratchet behaviour displayed by the ladies yesterday.” @Osi_Suave “ That Tweet from BrightO is childish and trashy. But I didn’t see this same vitriol at Ka3na calling Praise a 5-second man.” @_Etniesjags “ Brighto’s tweet is childish depending on where you’re looking at it from. Dorathy called him a bastard and kept insulting him but he said “I cannot insult anyone on live TV. Seems he took his “insults” to Twitter, Might be 50/50 because he didn’t start it.” @Chihope10 “ What was that BrightO tweet, omo see person wey Dora say she use. What a shame.” @Pauliyed “On behalf of all the men, we are disappointed in this tweet. No guy yesterday cast anything about sex with their female housemates even when the ladies were casting but you just ruined that shit man and that ain’t cool.” @ Danny_Walterr “ This is so childish. Man grow up! @Xplitizus “ Las las you no bright.. must you drop this? Are you the first man to receive a BJ. otondo. Keep catching your cruise but you no need drop this G.” @SirDickson “ Brighto’s mistake was that he should have said that as a response at the reunion not come here to Tweet it. Learn to win in the ring.” @Nosferatul “ Your name is bright but it’s so dark inside your head.”