A group, the Igbo Civil Society Organization (ICSO), has lambasted a former Presidential Aide, Abdulrahman Sulaiman Kawu Sumaila over comments against the quest by the Igbo nation to produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor in 2023. DAILY POST had reported that the former Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters, said that no right-thinking Nigerians will endanger their lives to support the candidature of any South-East politician vying for the presidency in 2023. He also said those responsible for the rising security challenges in the southeastern part of the country want to turn Nigeria into anarchy. Sumaila spoke through a statement made available to newsmen in Kano. But the Igbo Civil Society Organization, in a press release by its spokesman, Comrade Ezinne Colbert and issued to DAILY POST on Sunday night, asked Sulaiman to retract the comment and apologize to ndigbo and Nigerians immediately. Attacks on President Buhari in London, barbaric – Kawu Sumaila The Rights group noted that the violence and killings by Boko Haram secessionists for the past ten years and violence in other parts of Nigerian did not stop people from those areas from producing a Nigerians President, querying “Why the crisis in the southeast will make Sulaiman spew such disturbing comments”. It called on the governing All Progressive Congress (APC) to suspend the ex-presidential Adviser immediately for his inciting comments. The group further wondered why issues concerning the southeast often give some people sleepless nights even when worst things happen in other zones of Nigeria. They called on all Nigerians to ensure an Igbo succeeds President Mohammadu Buhari in 2023 as that would help to halt the insecurity all over the country. “Buhari cannot walk or visit his home town in Daura, and yet he is still our President. Southeast is the most peaceful part of Nigeria until the security agents radicalised the agitators in the region, and that is what Sulaiman should be concerned with and not such vexatious comment, “the ICSO concluded. No right-thinking Nigerian will support Igbo presidency in 2023 – Buhari’s ex-aide, Sumaila