President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday inaugurated the War Against Drug Abuse (WADA) initiated by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), warning that the drug war is deadly. Buhari stressed that drug war was dangerous than wars against insurgency and banditry because it targeted three generations for destruction. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Buhari said the war against drug abuse and illicit trafficking is a war that must be fought by well-meaning citizens. He said “it is, therefore, my pleasure to declare on behalf of the good people of Nigeria, a War Against Drug Abuse (WADA), not just as a slogan, but a call for civil action for all Nigerians to take an active part in this war. “Let me say that this war is deadly than the insurgency we have in the Northeastern part of the country or the acts of banditry in the Northwest or acts of kidnapping that transcends all the geopolitical zones of this country because it is a war that is destroying three generations. Drug abuse too hazardous to ignore in Nigeria – Senate President, Lawan ”I’ve seen clips of where grandparents are on drugs, parents are on drugs, and by extension, their wards, their children are on drugs. “So, this is a war that is targeting three generations in a stretch. ”I believe strongly that every effort must be put in place to ensure that we deal with the issues of substance abuse and trafficking and manufacture so that we can get to the root cause as ably elucidated by our keynote speaker this afternoon. ”I believe strongly, with every bit of conviction, that if we are able to deal with the issue of drug abuse, our security challenges will drastically reduce as we walk toward a drug-free Nigeria.” Buhari, implored Nigerians from every sphere of life, including traditional and religious leaders, local leadership at every level, to be vigilant and to support WADA. Buhari charged the NDLEA to intensify efforts at ridding the country of criminal elements. He said criminal elements had made forest areas their hideouts, from where they had been launching criminal onslaughts as well as for farming marijuana. The president added that his administration would continue to address underlying causes of drug abuse, including poverty reduction, ”for which my pledge to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years and strengthened by the recently developed National Poverty Reduction with Growth Strategy signposts my unwavering commitment.” Strike: El-Rufai’s abuse of power must be checked in Kaduna – NLC’s Wabba