Christian leaders in Nigeria have expressed deep concern over the worsening security situation and promised to sustain prayers for the return of peace and security to all parts of the country. Nigerian Christian Elders’ Forum led by the President, Church of Christ in Nations, COCIN, who also doubles as President, Nigeria Evangelical Fellowship, NEF, Professor Dachollom Datiri disclosed this on Wednesday at the Benue Peoples House Makurdi during a courtesy call on Governor Samuel Ortom. He said Benue would remain victorious and Nigeria would come out of the woods, stressing that the solidarity visit was to identify with the Governor and Benue people on what the state is going through. Unemployment fuelling insecurity in South-East – Igbo Forum The Cleric encouraged Governor Ortom to remain courageous and continue to speak out for the oppressed and against injustice as well as impunity in the country. He said the Governor is not alone in the struggle as they are with him in prayers, emphasising that as the mountain surrounds Jerusalem, so God surrounds His people. Professor Datiri noted that the assassination attempt on the Governor means the aggressors are mad at him and wants to eliminate him but prayed that they would never succeed because God had ordained the Governor for what he is doing. Responding, Governor Samuel Ortom according to his media aide, Jimin Geoffrey,1 acknowledged the firm support of the Church to the fight against injustice, impunity and lawlessness in the country, stressing that true friends manifest in times of distress. The Governor noted that he meant business when he called on the FG to allow responsible Nigerians own AK47 to defend themselves since it cannot stop the influx of foreign Fulani Herdsmen into the country. According to the Governor, the declaration of a state of emergency on security and national dialogue on security remains viable avenues through which the deteriorating security and economic challenges could be tackled. Catholic Bishop of Makurdi Diocese, Most Reverend Wilfred Anagbe said Church leaders owe it a duty to partner Government in the best way possible to serve the people. Bishop Anagbe said the onslaught on people of the country and on Benue State, in particular, was an Islamic agenda, adding that it was time for the Church to get to know who leads them before elections. Prayers will help end banditry – RCCG’s Pastor Adeboye