Tragedy struck in Ado Ekiti on Friday evening as soldiers numbering three allegedly killed an operative of the Department of State Services(DSS) inside a hotel. The incident occurred at about 7.30pm at a hotel located along NTA road in Ado Ekiti where one of the soldiers was alleged to have stabbed the DSS operative. The dead victim was said to have been stabbed on the neck and bled profusely, leading to his death. It was gathered that the incident happened as a result of a hot argument between the soldiers and the DSS staff, after they arrested a man suspected to be an ICT fraudster inside the hostel. Baba Ijesha disgraced Yoruba movie industry – Iyabo Ojo slams Yomi Fabiyi The source said: “As the soldiers who were inside the hotel had stopped the young man they suspected to be a ‘yahoo boy’ and interrogating him, the young man saw the DSS operative on a bike and beckoned to him for rescue. “When the DSS got to the soldiers, hot argument ensued between them and one of the soldiers became so angry that he drew out a knife and stabbed DSS operative in the neck. “The DSS man fell immediately and started bleeding. The people inside the hotel drinking had to run for dear lives, in fact, they hurriedly fled the scene to prevent being arrested”, he explained. Few minutes after the incident occurred, about six gun wielding DSS operatives were said to have stormed the hotel and arrested the soldiers. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, confirmed the incident. Abutu revealed that the victim was killed during an argument with some soldiers and that the police are investigating the matter. “We heard that the DSS operative was killed during a hot argument with some soldiers yesterday evening. “The deceased’s corpse had been deposited in the morgue. The perpetrators of the murder had been arrested. “Let me also add that our detectives have started investigation and we will get to the root of the matter”, Abutu said. EFCC arrests four suspected internet fraudsters in Benue