The Ogun State leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and some leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have disagreed with each other over the choice of Shuaib Ladejo as the chairmanship candidate for Odogbolu in the July 24 local government election. While NANS commended Governor Dapo Abiodun for endorsing Ladejo, a former students’ leader as the candidate, the aggrieved APC leaders condemned the governor, accusing him of imposition. At a press conference on Wednesday at the NUJ Secretariat, Okelewo, Abeokuta, Ogun State, NANS Chairman, Damilola Simeon and the Secretary of the National Association of Ogun State Students, Adebowale Gafar, commended Abiodun, reiterating that Ladejo is a promising Nigerian youth with lots of passion for his people. Yoruba nation: Tinubu, Gbaja, Akande, APC governors disagree with Sunday Igboho “Against all odds, His Excellency has chosen to stand by the youths and the Students Constituency by endorsing a students leader from Olabisi Onabanjo University to be the party’s flagbearer in the forthcoming local government election. The Governor’s decision is a step in the right direction. This singular act will give our youths hope in the future. The students expressed confidence that the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) will conduct a free and fair local government election, “which will serve as model for national election.” But, the aggrieved APC leaders protested that their choice of one Ola Olufunmilayo as the consensus candidate for Odogbolu was upturned by the governor. Speaking on behalf of the group, Ogunbakin Olugbenga, claimed that out of other three aspirants, party leaders in Odogbolu affirmed the said Olufunmilayo as their consensus candidate. He, however, expressed shock that the decision of the leaders was discarded, saying “a new person was named as the APC chairmanship candidate.” He warned that the act will spell doom for the APC if not reversed. Rivers APC crisis: Call Amaechi to order or risk repeat of 2019 – Abe cautions party