The Osun State House of Assembly Speaker, Timothy Owoeye has called for the review of the 1999 Constitution as well as a proactive restructuring of Nigeria to ensure all the tribes coexist peacefully. Owoeye who gave this call during a courtesy visit by the management of National Institute for Policy Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos to the Assembly in Osogbo also condemned tribalism, nepotism and corruption by the political class. The Speaker identified tribalism and corruption as the bane of policy implementation in Nigeria and called for the inclusion of people at the grassroots in the design and implementation of policies, noting that implementors of policies are not sincere to the nation. Owoeye noted that there was a need to collectively address the ills bedevilling Nigeria because the current state of the nation is not what the founding fathers envisioned. Bring an end to banditry, insecurity in Nigeria – Northern Govs tell IGP He maintained that as legislators, they have dedicated themselves to nation-building through the quality of legislation and legislative duties. He disclosed that because of the belief in the urgent need to review the country’s guiding principle, the 1999 Constitution, the Osun House of Assembly was also fully represented at the constitution review session in Akure. “It is time for us to be proactive and not reactive. We must listen to the yearnings of the citizenry and quickly profer solutions rather than leaving it to fester and snowball into a fully-fledged crisis.” Earlier, the leader of the team and Acting Director of Studies, Dr. Nasirudeen Usman said the visit aimed to look into the challenges facing policy implementation in the country. Usman noted that since the establishment of the centre in 1979, it has been opened for research and other important issues in Nigeria. “The major concerns of the team is about policy implementation in the country”. He commended the state government for its developmental policy implementation, noting that a major critical issue needed to be brought out at the end of the visit. Kidnapping in schools: Interfaith urges Gov El-Rufai to ensure security