Armed men suspected to be bandits have abducted a farmer, Alhaji Jimoh Olodan, at Iyemero Ekiti, in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State. The kidnapping came barely three months after another farmer, Mr. Isaac Agbanigo , was abducted at a farmstead in Ikere Ekiti , Ikere Council area of the state. The incident, according to an eyewitness, Chief Ajayi Ogungbemi, happened at Elegure farm settlement around 11.15pm on Friday. The farmstead is about three kilometres and 15 minutes drive to the community. Again, herdsmen unleash terror on Irele-Ekiti Ogungbemi, who is the Babaloja of Iyemero, told journalists, on Saturday , that the gun wielding abductors, numbering 18, invaded the farmstead and whisked away the sucessful farmer. According to the witness, the kidnappers shot sporadically into the air, as they whisked away the farmer to an unknown destination. He said the gunshots had caused panic , as residents, who had not slept when they came, fled into the bush, while those sleeping quickly awoke and took cover outside their residences. “The manner at which they operated showed that they had a target, who was Alhaji Olodan. The kidnappers upon entering the village went straight to the farmers residence and forced him out. He was actually the target. “This is not the first time Iyemero would be attacked by these evil men and we are suspecting that they are working in connivance with the Fulani herders operating in our farms. “The herders have been the ones terrorising Elegure and Atu farmsteads in recent times, destroying farmlands and kidnapping our people”, he alleged . Ogungbemi appealed to the State Police Command and the Amotekun corps to expedite actions and free the victim from his captors. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, said the police are not aware of the incident. “We are not aware, but we will ensure that we contact all the necessary units to ascertain the veracity of the incident”, he said. Also, the Commandant , Ekiti State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun, Brig Gen. Joe Komolafe, stated that the Corps has not been informed about the incident. Ondo: I killed my mother after my pastor told me she’s a witch – 30-year-old woman