The Kaduna State Police Command has confirmed that one student of College of Education Gidan waya Kafanchan in Kaduna State died after sustaining injuries following a clash between police operatives and students who were protesting tuition hike. DAILY POST had reported that the student was shot dead when security operatives made an attempt to disperse them forcefully during the protest. A statement forwarded to DAILY POST on Monday evening by the command’s spokesman, DSP Mohammed Jalige, said three students were initially injured while the operatives were shooting sporadically to enforce peace at the area. According to him, the three students were rushed to a medical facility where one was confirmed dead. He noted that normalcy has been restored to the area as the Commissioner of Police in the state, CP UM Muri urged students and management of the institution to remain calm. The statement reads, “Today Monday 28th June, 2021 at about 0800hrs the Command was informed of the protest and road blockade by the students of College of Education Gidan waya Kafanchan over the recent increase in tuition fee by the Kaduna State Government. “On receipt of the information, the Command immediately dispatched Operatives to restore normalcy. “The contingent professionally and successfully dispersed the protesters and warned them not to embark on further protest and road blockade considering the existing warning against such action, issued by the Kaduna state Police Command a fortnight ago. “However, at about 0930hrs, information has it that the students re-converged again and blocked the Gidan Waya – Kafanchan Federal Highway and were becoming unruly and riotous. “At a point, the protesters blocked the convoy of a military sector Commander injuring him and one other. “The situation resulted into a fracas where three (3) protesters were injured in attempt to use minimal force to disperse the riotous students. “The victims were taken to the Hospital for medical attention but unfortunately one person died while receiving medical attention. “The Commissioner of Police Kaduna Command CP UM Muri urged the students to embrace dialogue as it is best alternative way to express their grievances while assuring them of diligent investigation into the immediate and remote causes of the fracas that resulted to injuries to the students and the unfortunate loss of life.” Southern Kaduna people accuse FG, Kaduna govt of neglect