Suspected hoodlums on Sunday, hijacked a political rally organised by an APC chieftain, who is also the Kwara State Commissioner for Water Resources, Mr Waheed Femi Agbaje, at Offa, in Offa Local Government Area of the state. DAILY POST learnt that the incident was a contest for the party between the state Water Commissioner and a serving Senator Lola Ashiru, from the same Offa local government and belonging to the same All Progressives Congress in the state. This is happening barely hours after over 20,000 members of the APC renounced their membership of the party in Ilorin on Saturday. Security sources told DAILY POST that two loyalists of the commissioner sustained gunshot wounds in the Offa fracas. The victims were moved to Offa general hospital for medical attention by the civil defence JTF and police. There are fears that a reprisal attack is imminent as reasons for the Sunday rally attack could not be ascertained at the time of this report. Herdsmen attack Kwara APC spokesman’s farm, several injured Our correspondent gathered that the political rally was not officially approved by either the state or local government arms of the APC. The Water Commissioner had gone ahead to hold the rally which was eventually hijacked by suspected hoodlums leading to two persons sustaining gunshot wounds. When contacted, the Special Adviser on Political Communication to the governor, Mr Bashir Adigun, directed DAILY POST to speak with the state police command on the development. The state police command’s spokesman, Mr Okasanmi Ajayi, responded to a text message sent to him on the matter saying “On 20/06/2021, at about 3.45pm, while at a rally in his ward around Tunmade area of Offa, Commissioner of Water Resources, Kwara State, Abdulwaheed Femi Agbaje and his group, were allegedly attacked by some hoodlums wielding dangerous weapons and two of his men were injured in the fracas. “The hoodlums disappeared before the arrival of policemen to the scene. “The two injured victims were taken to the hospital for treatment, while the state police commissioner, Mohammed Lawal Bagega, has ordered an investigation of the incident.” Efforts to arrest the fleeing hoodlums are still in progress, the text message by the spokesman stated. Oduduwa Republic: Police ban Yoruba nation rally in Ogun