As the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) kicked off Monday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun has expressed optimism that the exercise would be hitch-free even as it advised citizens of voting age to avail themselves of the opportunity. Sunday Bisi, the Osun PDP Chairman in a chat with DAILY POST said the exercise was in order as it is aimed at allowing for more participation of Nigerians of voting age in the nation’s electoral process. While explaining that election remained the only tool with which capable and passionate leaders can be elected into positions of authority in a democratic Nigeria, called on residents who have attained the national voting age of 18 years and above and who have not registered with INEC as eligible voters to take full advantage of the opportunity to get registered. 2023 Election: INEC announces date to resume continuous voter registration He emphasised that getting registered and arming themselves with a voter card remained the only potent weapon to dislodge any government which failed to fulfil its electoral promises to the electorates. The Osun PDP Chairman also explained that INEC has made the registration exercise less cumbersome by providing an e-registration portal through which a substantial process of the registration could be done before proceeding to the INEC in their local governments for biometric completion of the process. He charged Osun residents to take the CVR as a prelude to the gubernatorial election in the state adding that it must be approached with a corresponding sense of responsibility and with scrutinising alertness. Meanwhile, the Spokesperson of INEC in Osun State, Mrs. Olusayo Adedokun has said the Commission does not envisage any hitches from the exercise since it is done online. She explained that reports on the first day of the registration have been promising as the registration portal has been accessible by those who are eligible. She, however, said if any problems were encountered during the exercise, the Commission would take every step to address it so that the process would carry on without any glitches. 2023: INEC to resume voter registration