The Leader of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele, on Wednesday warned that another terrorist group will emerge with sophisticated weapons. Primate Ayodele revealed that President Muhammadu Buhari and the Chief of Army Staff need to fortify the security of the nation because he foresees another terrorist group coming up soon. In a statement released by his media office, the man of God revealed that the existing ones, Boko Haram and ISWAP will fade out but a tougher one will rise in Africa and settle down in Nigeria with highly sophisticated weapons. He revealed that God is ready to fight the battle against terrorism for Nigeria but the Army need to show that they are ready to win the fight by making some apprehensions. ‘’Nigeria will overcome terrorism if the government will take to instruction. Boko Haram is fading out as I said, I foresee that ISWAP will also go soon but I see another terrorist group in Africa coming to settle down in Nigeria. They will use highly sophisticated weapons to operate. If the military is ready, God will fight terrorism for Nigeria. Some politicians are involved in terrorism, they should be arrested and dealt with, and these are the people fueling terrorism’’. Continuing, He asked Nigerians to pray not to lose a top army general and advised the new chief of army staff to be focused. Insecurity: Primate Ayodele releases fresh prophecies on open grazing ban, S/East, IBB, others ‘’ Let Nigeria pray so the army will not lose a top general. The new chief of army staff should be focused so that he can succeed. He will battle enemies who are in charge of terrorists in Nigeria’’. While speaking on corruption, Primate Ayodele noted that He foresees that the EFCC will go after influential politicians who are corrupt, stating that many of them will need to surrender their ambition and portfolios due to this development. ‘’EFCC will do a lot as from now on, many politicians should get prepared because some will go to jail, they will be mandated to surrender their ambition. Anyone who is involved in corruption should not contest, they will be disgraced’’.