Adewale Adebisi, a social commentator, has said referendum, rather than constitution review, is the way to go in settling agitations for secession in Nigeria. He said this in a radio current affairs programme in Osogbo, the Osun state capital, on Monday, adding that constitution review is not practicable anymore. Adebisi, who claimed that the 1999 Constitution was a product of the military era, stated that it created a unitary federalism which empowered the centre in detriment to the states. He revealed that the 1963 Republican Constitution was the best so far even as he lambasted the political elite and accused them of being beneficiaries of the 1999 Constitution. The social crusader stated that the 1999 constitution stood condemned because it was handed over to Nigerians by the military, adding that nothing can be imposed on the people since under a democracy, they were allowed to decide for themselves. Biafra: IPOB needs referendum not asylum – Nnamdi Kanu replies UK govt While maintaining that the constitution amendment is not the first thing, he described the current exercise as unpatriotic adding that the politicians have to be patriotic and nationalistic in their approach to the present Nigerian problem. “There is nothing stopping this present government from conducting a plebiscite to determine whether this present constitution is useful or not. If truly democracy is the government of the people, by the people and for the people, as such the people must be allowed to have a say. They must be part of the decision over their own destiny. “Let there be a referendum. I don’t see a sovereign national conference coming into reality now but if we want a constitutional reform, let us conduct a plebiscite and decide how we want to be run. It will bring down tensions and the agitations of secessionists will be reduced,” he said. On the June 12 Democracy Day celebration, he explained that it was a procession and not a protest. Adebisi regretted that security agencies and the government were confused as to distinguish between a rally and a protest. According to him, “the situation on Saturday, June 12 was a reminder of the military era. Regrettably, the government too is living in fear. They did not encourage the people to come out. People only came out when they observed how peaceful the procession was.” While differentiating between June 12 and EndSARS protests, Adebisi noted that the former is for the attainment of democracy and the presidential recognition given to M. K. O. Abiola. He was quick to add that the resultant effects of the June 12th, 1993 election annulment is yet to be healed.