Three persons have been reportedly killed in Ogun State by herdsmen said to be among those behind killings in Igangan, Oyo State, on Sunday. The victims were identified by an impeccable source as: Femi Bara, John Taiwo and Tunde Taiwo. They were said to have been murdered at Amule Kanji village, via Imeko, Imeko/Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State. Oyo herdsmen killings: 50 dead, North wants war in Nigeria – Gani Adams DAILY POST learnt that the three men were on a bike, coming from Ologede village when they ran into the killer herdsmen, “who killed them and took away their motorbike.” The Balogun of Imeko Isale, Chief Ganiu Akinleye, confirmed that the incident happened around 11 pm on Sunday. Chief Akinloye told DAILY POST that the police had gone to the village to evacuate the corpses. “You know there was a crisis in Igangan yesterday, those herdsmen who escaped to Imeko through our forest reserves killed three men on Sunday night. “The victims were riding on a motorcycle, coming from Ologede around 11 o’clock last (Sunday) night. They ran into these fleeing herdsmen, who killed them. They even took the victim’s new motorcycle away, leaving their old one behind,” he said. “We saw empty AK-47 cartridges at the scene of the incident. A formal report has been made at the police station in Imeko and the police have gone there to take the bodies. Makinde reacts as gunmen invade Igangan, kill scores “This is getting too much. We can no longer sleep in our houses. The herdsmen are everywhere. Government should come to our rescue. The Amotekun operatives in Imeko are too few. We need help.” The Balogun raised the alarm that the Igangan killers had relocated to a village called Sagada in Imeko/Afon. “Those herdsmen who escaped after killing people in Igangan are now in Ogun State. They camp in a village called Sagada, under Oke Agbede in Ward 2. “There is a river, (Oyan) in-between Sagada and Igangan. They are there as we speak. We have informed the appropriate authorities, but no positive steps have been taken so far,” the community leader said. Contacted, the Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said, “I will find out.” DAILY POST earlier reported that scores of Igangan residents were gruesomely murdered by suspected herdsmen on Sunday. Ogun: Passengers reportedly kidnapped along Imeko road [VIDEO]