Leaders of Ogun West Senatorial District have slammed the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, over alleged marginalisation and underrepresentation of the region in the last two years. The stakeholders’ forum, which comprises professionals, businessmen, technocrats and public servants from Ogun West (Yewa/Awori) expressed concern over the distribution of political appointments under Abiodun’s government. They also asked the governor to declare a state of emergency on the roads in the zone. I can’t do everything or please everyone – Gov Abiodun
The forum, in a letter entitled, ‘Two Years of Governor Dapo Abiodun’s Administration: An Ogun West perspective’, kicked against what it called the “continued marginalisation” of Yewa/Awori in an open letter jointly signed by its Chairman, Dr. Yemisi Bamgbose; the Secretary, Prof. Jendele Hungbo; Northern Coordinator; Pastor Abiodun Olajide and Diaspora Coordinator, Chief Adetunji Ebo. The forum groaned that it is seriously concerned that Abiodun’s government has continued with the unwholesome tradition of underrepresentation of Ogun West in the distribution of political appointments. The Yewa/Awori stakeholders, which faulted Abiodun on road infrastructure, health, education and security, asking him to take active steps. According to the letter, despite the efforts made by the government within the last two years in office, roads in Ogun West still remain the most deplorable in the State. On political representation, the forum said, “We are seriously concerned that this government has continued with the unwholesome tradition of underrepresentation of Ogun West in the distribution of political appointments. We therefore call on the government to take active steps to correct the anomaly. “We are of the firm conviction that Governor Dapo Abiodun is capable of living to the promises he made and he continues to reiterate to the entire state in general and Ogun West in particular to be fair and just in the distribution of infrastructure and opportunities.” Reacting, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin disagreed with the forum on the alleged marginalisation. Somorin said, “This Government promised to be even-handed in the distribution of amenities and has kept to its promise. The Governor is not developing any part of the State at the expense of any other.” “If Ogun West is having any issues, the relationship between him (Governor) and his deputy and all other cabinet members and leaders, including traditional rulers who are part of his inclusive government would have been rocky, not rosy as it is.”
I may turn pastor after eight years as governor – Abiodun