The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has suspended two governorship aspirants from its platform. The two aspirants, Mrs Jumoke Anifowose-Ajasin and Dr Nathaniel Adojutelegan participated in the primaries that produced Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as the party’s candidate during the October 10, 2020 election. The Publicity Secretary of the party, Alex Kalejaiye, said the duo were expelled for anti-party activities. Kalejaiye emphasized that the decision of the party was in conformity with Article 21 of the APC Constitution. Ogun LG polls: Cold war as APC aspirants battle for tickets In January 2021, the party in Igboroko 1, Ward 2 of Owo Local Government had placed a suspension on Anifowose, who is the daughter of the first civilian Governor of the old Ondo State, late Chief Michael Ajasin, for allegedly being involved in anti-party activities. The same fate was slammed on Adojutelegan by the party in Arigidi Iye, Ward 1, Akoko North West Local Government. Following the outcome of the primaries held on July 20, 2020, the duo had approached the court with prayers that the outcome of the primaries which produced Governor Akeredolu be upturned. We screened 16 aspirants for Anambra governorship race – PDP Addressing journalists during a press briefing in Akure, the state capital, Kalejaiye said the suspension of the leaders of the party was not done out of malice but failure for them to regard the party. The spokesperson of the party added that their resolve to approach the court was not the reason for the action taken against them but the failure to explore and exhaust the internal mechanism of the party. During the press briefing, the party also disclosed that “The State Exco also resolved that while the chapter is ready and willing to absorb politicians from other political parties that are set to join, we wish to make it clear that ‘nomadic politicians’ that have migrated back and forth to several political parties in Nigeria would not be admitted into our fold.” Anambra guber: All our aspirants are billionaires – PDP