Governor Umar Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has said he is not retiring from politics like Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State and he will remain active even beyond 2023. Governor Ganduje told newsmen that his political influence can not be tamed in a few years as he is still actively in the system. “My Political dexterity goes beyond the 1970s and I will remain active in politics even beyond 2023 not retiring because I’m not entirely tired of the system”. More governors will join APC soon – Ganduje Ganduje hints that he can not clearly spell out what or which position he is going for, “but let me assure you that I will remain active because that is what I have been doing since the early 70s”. When answering questions on who will be his successor after 2023, the Governor refused to specifically say but assured that delegates who are going to vote for the next person will do a diligent job. “On who will succeed me, I think one should allow the delegates to decide that because as you rightly know, Kano politics is something else you don’t sometimes interfere with and if you do you will be on your own”. Governor Umar Ganduje also noted that Nigeria is in dire need of a peaceful resolution out of the several insecurities and as such all hands should be on deck to make things better. The Governor commended regional socio-cultural groups like Ohanaeze Ndigbo, ACF, Afenifere and the Middle Belt group for identifying themselves with one Nigeria Project. Gov Masari explains why state of emergency can’t solve Nigeria’s security problems
“And for those young ones who think they could divide the country by their agitations, they should know that they are alone in their quest and this is because their elders have actively identified with one Nigeria entity”. These young Nigerians should know that our diversity is a source of our strength and pride and we should use it for a better nation than create problems that would consume us and push us to crises”, Ganduje warned.