Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has reacted to a recent reconciliation plea made to Boko Haram and Islamic State in West African Province (ISWAP) by the Nigerian Army. The army had called on the terrorists to put down their weapons and embrace peace, saying an end to the war is in sight. The call for reconciliation was made by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division, Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Abdulwahad Eyitayo at a party organised for journalists by the Army in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital on Sunday. Eyitayo said that no one, including the military, was happy with the bloodshed, calling on the remnants of the terrorist organisation to take advantage of the amnesty and repent without further delay. Eyitayo said, “We are not here for bloodletting, no one is happy that people are dying. Some of them (the insurgents) listen to the media, so it is good for us to appeal to them through the media to avoid violence, come forward to ask for forgiveness and reconciliation.” Fani-Kayode reacts as Nigerian Army begs Boko Haram, ISWAP for reconciliation Nnamdi Kanu lamented that the terrorists would be rehabilitated, recruited into the army and posted to the South. Kanu tweeted, “Nigerian Army BEGS Boko Haram, ISWAP terrorists for reconciliation. “And after reconciliation, they will be rehabilitated, recruited into the Army & sent to the South to ‘shoot to kill’. Now you see why I keep calling it a TERRORIST army.” A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation, had earlier reacted to the development, expressing shock at the army’s decision to demand reconciliation with members of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists. “Nigerian Army BEGS Boko Haram, ISWAP terrorists for reconciliation. “Since when has the Nigerian Army resorted to begging murderers, killers and terrorists? How have the mighty fallen!” he tweeted. More than 30,000 Nigerians have been killed while over three million are displaced in the North East by Boko Haram terrorists. The terrorist organisation also has many Nigerians held in their custody. On April 14, 2014, a total of 276 schoolgirls were kidnapped from their school in Chibok. With 164 reunited to their families, 112 are still in captivity and many of them reportedly married off by the terrorists. Also, on February 19, 2018, 110 schoolgirls of 11-19 years old were kidnapped from Government Girls’ Science Secondary School in Dapchi, Bulabutin, Yunusari Local Government Area of Yobe State. Five of the girls died on the same day and all others were released in March 2018 except Leah Sharibu, a Christian girl who refused to renounce her faith. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has, on more than one occasion, vowed to deal with the Nnamdi Kanu-led IPOB. In his last interview with Arise Television, the President vowed to send more army and police personnel to the South East to deal with members of the group. Insecurity: Establish Truth, Reconciliation Committee – Moghalu tells Buhari