Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has sworn in 10 new Permanent Secretaries into the Abia State civil service, with a charge for them to align themselves with the programmes and policies of his administration. Speaking during the swearing-in ceremony held Monday at Dr Michael Okpara Auditorium Umuahia, Governor Ikpeazu congratulated the newly elevated civil servants on the milestone they have attained. He reminded them that greater responsibilities have now been entrusted on their shoulders to drive the statecraft as well as bring democracy dividends to the Abia populace.  The Governor noted that the newly sworn-in Permanent Secretaries have joined the quest at the top to make the Abia of our dreams a reality, as well as becoming the vehicle to drive economic development in the State. Governor Ikpeazu further enjoined them to take up the new responsibility with maturity and candour, and expressed confidence in the capability of the appointees to acquit themselves creditably in the new assignment. The state chief executive also charged them to carry other staff of their ministries along so as to realize the government’s policies and programmes for the state.  Responding on behalf of his colleagues, Deacon Uzoma Livingstone Isiakpu thanked the Governor for the elevation and honour did them and promised to bring to bear their wealth of experience in moving the state forward. He pledged their commitment and unreserved loyalty to the administration, as well as work in tandem with the dictates of the civil service. The new Permanent Secretaries are Isiakpu, Uzoma Livingstone,
Enyioko, Benson Ugochukwu, Engr. Chika Friday Okey, Agbara Charles Chukwudi and Mrs Onyegbu Clara Chioma. Others include, Aaron Ikechi Bestman, Okpe Arum Okpe, Mr Ugwuzor Ugochukwu, Mrs, Alaribe Ngozi Victoria and Onyeama Franklin.  The oaths of office and allegiance were administered on them by the Solicitor General of the state and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Mrs Uzoamaka Ikonne. The Deputy Governor, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu, the Member representing Isialangwa North state constituency, Chief Ginger Onwusibe, his Aba South counterpart, Mr Obinna Ichita, Secretary to the State Government, Barr Chris Ezem, Head of Service, Sir Onyii Wamah, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Professor ACB Agbazuere, the Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Deputy Governor, Sir Don Ubani and a host of other government functionaries witnessed the ceremony. 