Popular gospel singer, Evangelist Tope Alabi, has come under heavy criticism for condemning a song by Yinka Alaseyori in a viral video. DAILY POST observed that Alaseyori, had in a song described God as her (spiritual) guarantor or advocate. The song, ‘Oniduro mi e seun’, meaning ‘thank You my Guarantor’, became very popular among the people of the South West. The song became an ‘anthem’ in churches as hardly will a Sunday pass by without a ‘mention’ of it during services in the South West. But, Tope Alabi, making veiled reference to Alaseyori during an event, said it will be wrong for anybody to tag God as his or her guarantor. Tope Alabi said there was a day she wanted to sing the song, but the Holy Spirit told her to shut up. To her, God is more than a guarantor or surety and it will not be good to describe him so. The singer spoke in Yoruba language that Gospel singers need to digest songs very well before releasing them to the public, otherwise individuals will be singing something senseless. “Look at the enormous things God has done and somebody now came out to say Oniduromi e seun. God is not my own guarantor. God is more than a guarantor. I also loved that song, but the day I wanted to sing it, the Holy Spirit said ‘shut up your mouth.’ This is not like saying a song is not good. When you receive a song in the spirit, there are some deliberations you must have with the Holy Spirit before releasing it to the public, otherwise, if you release it the way it comes, individuals will just be singing rubbish. He has given us the brain to digest through it very well, then bring it back.” But, many have since attacked Tope Alabi online, saying she was only envious of Yinka. See some comments below. Adetunbi Saheed Ige: “Now I can understand. Tope Alabi thinks she can be the champion forever? This woman is giving her a run for her money in praising God and Aunty Tope just wants to bully her to silence. It is not possible. This woman just hit global limelight due to Tope Alabi’s envy.” Babajide Oderinde: “Whatever Tope Alabi’s real intention was with the unchristian-like and childish stunt she pulled, she has only succeeded in making this gifted woman more popular. Although I have been listening to her soul lifting songs for some time now, but I didn’t know what she looks like until now. This is a case of God using your enemy’s antics to lift you up. The kinda hatred and earthly competition that runs in Christendom.” Paul Olayemi: “You people don’t really know how God has done it for the lady that sang the song to be more famous. God has used the so-called Tope Alabi to be her advertising channel without any payment. She believes she was bringing her down without knowing the criticism she did to her will turn to her uplifting. Tope Alabi, thanks for the free advert you did to promote the lady through your jealousy.” Anuoluwa Iyiola: Tope Alabi gets pride. Imagine her attending a christain programme, if you don’t pay her up to N250k, she can never come, if not more. Business gospel artiste, I am not saying they should not give you money, but gospel is not for sale. Princess Paulin: Abraham was great, Isaac was very great, but Jacob was exceedingly great. Alaseyori, it’s your time to Yori. If you know, you know. Watch the video below.  