Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The federal government yesterday, gave a condition to lift its indefinite suspension on Twitter in Nigeria. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama who made this known to newsmen at a meeting with some envoys on Monday, said Twitter will be restored only if the platform can be used responsibly. 2. The Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to accord special treatment to the people of the South East, warning that the current marginalisation of the zone would not augur well with the country. NEF Director, Publicity and Advocacy, Hakeem Baba-Ahmed addressed reporters on Monday in Abuja. 3. The Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba, on Monday, announced the immediate suspension of tinted vehicle windscreen permits in Nigeria. Baba made the announcement during a meeting with senior police officers, including commissioners and DIGs yesterday. EPL: Teams that qualified for Champions League, Europa League, Europa Conference confirmed 4. Two political appointees, Mark Bookie Obi, Special Adviser to Governor Ben Ayade on administration and Cecil Cecil Ita, Director General Urban Renewal Commission (South) have resigned their appointments following the defection of the governor from PDP to APC. This was contained in their letters of resignation addressed to the governor on Monday. 5. The National President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Chief Chris Isiguzo, has advised the Federal Government to rise to the challenges which insecurity poses to national integrity. He gave the advice in his address at the opening ceremony of the 2021 NUJ National Conference taking place in Rivers State. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, gave a marching order to the nation’s armed forces to synergise and end the ongoing ‘war’ and insecurity across the country. Buhari gave the order when he received the new Chief of Army Staff, Major Gen. Farouk Yahaya at the Presidential Villa on Monday. 7. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has revealed that a comprehensive list of new polling units will be published next week even as it has concluded arrangements to resume the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise nationwide in the next three weeks. Its Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, disclosed on Monday. FG reveals condition for lifting ban on Twitter 8. The Chairman, South East Security Committee, Major General Obi Umahi (retd), has resigned his appointment over poor funding of the committee. This was contained in a letter dated June 4 and addressed to the Chairman, South East Governors Forum (SGF) and copied to the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor. 9. The Federal Government has directed all broadcast stations in the country to go off Twitter. Armstong Idachaba, Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), gave the directive in a memo to broadcast stations. 10. The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has unveiled an all-female combatant squad as part of its safe school initiative. NSCDC Commandant-General, Ahmed Abubakar Audi, disclosed this in Abuja yesterday. 2023 presidency: Arewa youths give Tinubu conditions to support his presidential ambition