Ogun State Governor, Mr Dapo Abiodun, has come under serious attack on social media over his claim that a “transparent primary election” returned Sen. Andy Uba as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State. DAILY POST reports that Uba was declared winner of the APC governorship primary in Anambra in the early hours of Sunday by Gov Abiodun, who heads the election panel. Abiodun said Uba polled 230,201 of the 348,490 total votes cast, to defeat 13 other aspirants. Abiodun, announced the outcome of the said primary election at the Golden Tulip Hotel, Agulu Lake. But, posts from Abiodun about the controversial election were greeted with bashings and condemnations from APC members from Anambra, who said there was no primary election conducted in the state on Saturday. Anambra guber: Andy Uba dismissies report of non-purchase of APC forms by aspirants The people wondered how Abiodun came about the over 230,000 votes he claimed Uba scored in the primary election, which, they said, never held. Their comments: Chiwendu Moghalu: “This is the most unbelievable show of disregard to an entire state. How do you even sit here with your full chest and call results for an election you know did not happen. How?? It’s pure madness. Honestly, I pray that everyone who was actually in Anambra and witnessed this but yet has the conscience to write congratulations and claim election held, May everything you have ever worked for in your life go the exact same way this election has gone. You will sow and never reap. How do you do that to 13 people who have spent their time, energy and resources and you did not even allow them cast their vote for themselves? Posterity will judge all of you. Nah ya’ll are cursed. What the f*ck?” Remigius Ojukwu: “You are a liar! We the members of APC and Anambra State in general are disappointed in you, Dapo Abiodun. It is a shame that you deprived our party members the opportunity to elect their flag bearer. Why did you and your devious committee go incommunicado throughout the day? You only surfaced here to feed people with lies. No election was held in Anambra. I hereby implore the leadership of our great party APC to constitute a new committee that will organize an acceptable primary election in Anambra State. Dapo Abiodun we are ashamed of you. Dapo Abiodun, show me your friend and I will tell you who you are. You have shown us Andy Uba. So, we have known that you are a devious man. Not worthy to be a public servant. Dapo Abiodun is a liar, a disgrace to democracy. No election was held in Anambra, yet he announced the result he brought from Ogun State. Thank you for killing APC in Anambra.” Onyeike Chris: “How much were you paid for this kind of act that will make APC lose the forthcoming election?” Obi Trice Emeka: “Shame on you Abiodun. Your children will learn that you have no value.” Uche Chinedu: “Big shame and failure to the national assignment given to you. APC national body should raise against this nonsense if they want to gain people’s faith in this State.” Nkem Ogbuabana: “No election in Anambra State. God is not happy with you.” Okeke Ifeanyi: “Some people no longer have conscience in life. No primary election was conducted.” Ekene Onyido: “No election in Anambra State. No materials or results sheet seen in 95% of wards in Anambra State where election was supposed to hold.” Chikwado Dennis: “DA, I am disappointed in you l. Tufiakwa!” Eze Sylvester: “You are a disgrace to mankind. You are one of the reasons why they say Nigeria is unamenable. Shame on you. Shame to the family you came from because you have disappointed them.” Cee Cee Udenwa: “No primary election in over 300 wards in Anambra State and yet you collate results. Is it not evidence that Nigeria is doomed if a governor could not organize a simple primary election?” Charles Iwuagwu: “The governor has proven his untrustworthiness and lacking the nitty-gritty for future national assignments and has dented his personality. I pity him for allowing desperate politicians to mess him up. APC Anambra State will never allow this charade to stand. Never!” Emejulu Michael: “There is God ooo. I felt very much ashamed of this news release. It’s so pathetic and loathsome that no material was distributed, not any election conducted and a dignified one assigned to conduct transparent election woefully failed to do same.” John Ogbonna: “I challenge Dapo Abiodun to post pictures and videos of where elections were conducted in Anambra State today. Don’t post pictures collating fake results to tell us elections happened.” Ikenna Stanley: “Dapo Abiodun, Andy Uba and cohorts will soon realize that this is 202, not 1999. If it works in Ogun, it will never work in Anambra.” Anambra: Andy Uba wins APC primary election