The Federal Government has issued a travel advisory to Nigerians who visited Brazil, India and Turkey, citing risks of COVID-19. It also advised Governors to ensure that all returned international passengers in their respective states adhere strictly to the mandatory seven days isolation period. Mr Boss Mustapha, Chairman of the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19, gave the advice during a town hall meeting on COVID-19 vaccination for the North East Zone in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. The meeting was organised by the PSC in collaboration with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). Mustapha, who was represented by Alhaji Abubakar Mohammed, Minister of Environment, said Nigeria has the responsibility to safeguard the health of its people and block any chance to spread COVID-19 in the country. Nigerian government warns against travelling to India, Brazil, Turkey, South Africa “Nigerians are strongly advised to avoid non essential international travelling at this time, especially to countries that are showing an increase in the number of COVID-19 deaths. “Consequently, any person who had visited Brazil, India and Turkey within 14 days preceding travel to Nigeria shall be denied entry into Nigeria. “Among other travelling guidelines, individuals, transporters and airlines who abuse the guidelines shall be sanctioned,’’ Mustapha said. He explained that the PSC has been monitoring with keen interest the rise in cases of COVID-19 abroad. ”The Federal Government deeply sympathises with the government and citizens of those countries and assured them of unflinching support and solidarity. ”All Governors are also advised to ensure that all returned international passengers in their respective states adhere strictly to the mandatory seven days isolation period,” he said. The PSC chairman said that the cardinal objective of the meeting was to provide means for the government, communities and other relevant stakeholders to discuss the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination in the country. The SGF noted that records available showed that the daily incident of COVID-19 in the country has reduced. Nigerian govt bans passengers from India, Brazil, Turkey