President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated that his order to the Inspector-General of Police and heads of other security agencies, to shoot at sight any person or persons found illegally wielding AK-47s and other assault weapons, remains intact. Buhari further vowed that his administration will act firmly and decisively ‘‘against any and all persons fomenting or carrying out attacks on our Police Force and other security personnel.’’ Buhari spoke at the handing over of security equipment by the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to the Lagos State Police Command during his one-day official visit to the State. Shoot at sight order: Don’t push us, we’ll do worse than Boko Haram – Biafra group warns Buhari President Buhari warned that ‘‘a nation that turns its Police personnel and infrastructure into targets of violence and destruction is a nation on the path of self-destruction. ‘‘I have charged the Inspector-General to leave no stone unturned in rebuilding the morale of his officers and men, especially in the aftermath of the mindless violence associated with the End SARS protests, as well as the recent spate of attacks on Police Stations in some parts of the country,” he said. Buhari had during an interview with Arise TV said that a leading secessionist group in the South East, Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and other groups will be dealt with by the military and the police. He said the IPOB will be treated in the language they understand and there will be a difference in a few weeks. The President maintained his stance on sending the military to the South East to combat IPOB members despite the group denying having anything to do with recent attacks on government assets. Ohanaeze warns Buhari govt over alleged ‘shoot at sight order’ on Igbo youths
Buhari had issued a similar threat a few days ago which generated a lot of reactions from Nigerians and the President’s comment was later deleted on Twitter. The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Information and Culture has since banned the microblogging platform from operating in the country though the Twitter accounts of the President and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo have remained active since then.