Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, approved the appointment of a Chairman and an Executive Secretary for the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA). This was contained in a statement signed by Femi Adesina, the President’s Spokesman. 2. The Federal Government yesterday, said that the elites in Nigeria are the sponsors of those clamouring for the breakup of the country. Information Minister, Lai Mohammed spoke at a meeting with the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN). 3. Senator Peter Nwaoboshi who represents the Delta North Senatorial District, has defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. He was presented to Buhari at the State House by the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege on Friday. 4. Gunmen suspected to be armed robbers have shot dead Mrs. Olayemi Odetomi, wife of a former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Oyo State, Peter Oderomi. The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Adewale Osifeso, said police had begun an investigation into the killing. 5. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, says the Federal Government is not the sponsor of the bills purportedly meant to stifle the press. The minister stated this on Friday in Lagos during an interview. 6. Renowned Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, yesterday, denied being invited by the Department of State Service (DSS) as being purported in the media. Peter Afunanya, DSS spokesman, had earlier told reporters that the scholar was invited by the agency over his recent comment accusing the Nigerian Army of aiding the supplying weapons to bandits. 7. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has extended the tenure of Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. Mamman Mohammed, Director-General, Press and Media Affairs to Gov. Buni, confirmed this in a statement on Friday. 8. Derek Chauvin, the policeman who shot and killed George Floyd, an African-American, has been sentenced to 22 years in prison. In his ruling, Justice Peter Cahill of a Minnesota court, held that the sentence was not based on emotion or sympathy. 9. The Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency says it has seized 408.655kgs of various illicit drugs and arrested 150 suspects in Gombe state. The state commander, Ekaete Sylvia Egwunwoke disclosed this while addressing newsmen on Friday. 10. President Muhammadu Buhari has postponed his medical trip to London indefinitely. Femi Adesina, Presidential spokesman, announced this in a statement on Friday. No reason was given for the development which was announced hours before the scheduled medical trip.