Following the Federal government’s decision to suspend the operations of Twitter in Nigeria, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, has called on Twitter and other social media platforms to permanently delete the accounts of President Buhari. Recall that Nigerians had called for the suspension of President Buhari’s account for saying ‘individuals or groups who want to destroy his government will be treated in a language they will understand. Following the development, on Wednesday, Twitter deleted the comment, saying it violated its rules. However, the Federal Government on Friday announced the suspension of the micro blogging website. Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed who made the announcement during a press conference cited the persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of destroying Nigeria’s corporate existence as reason for the suspension. Reacting, the former Governor in a tweet via his Twitter Account said “those undermining the rights of Nigerians to freedom of expression should themselves not enjoy such right.” According to him, the Buhari-led administration shouldn’t be allowed to have any account on these social media platforms as they have refused to let innocent citizens enjoy their freedom of expression. ”I said it before and let me reiterate it again that it is only a ‘Jonah’ in a ship that can make such pronouncement, suspending Twitter from the country. God, please save us from President Buhari, ‘the Jonah in our ship’. “Those undermining the rights of Nigerians to freedom of expression should themselves not enjoy such right. “Therefore, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and other Social media platforms should deactivate all accounts associated with @MBuhari and his government as done in Turkey in 2020 for us to have peace in Nigeria,” he wrote. Meanwhile, Micro blogging platform, Twitter, has finally shut down in Nigeria. DAILY POST observed that new tweets no longer pop up as the platform does not refresh anymore. Ayo Fayose reacts as Twitter deletes Buhari’s threat to South East