Former Presidential aide, Reno Omokri has said Chidinma Ojukwu, the 21-year-old student of the University of Lagos who murdered the Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, Usifo Ataga, was a victim of bad parenting and bad society. Omokri in reaction to the death of the Super Tv CEO said people should stop demonizing the 21-year-old as it takes two to tango. He noted that Nigeria is now a society that priorities wealth over morals adding that Nigerians had celebrated a Ned Nwoko who already had a sizeable international harem for marrying his granddaughter’s age mate. Omokri further advised that it would be best if people calmed down and tried to find out why the ugly incident took place at the first place and what led to it. “Everyone is now demonizing Chidimma forgetting that it takes two to tango. She was 21 and Usifo was 50. Between them, there existed a 29-tear-old gap. She could have been his daughter, Omokri said on social media. Usifo Ataga’s murder: Tracking Unit in Panti exposed suspected killer, Chidinma – Police “How many of you condemning Chidimma were mature at 21? Now they are circulating a video of her smoking. How many of you didn’t smoke at 21? “I think we need to calm down and try to find out why it happened and make course corrections as a society. “Chidimma is also a victim of bad parenting and bad society.In Nigeria, poor parents suddenly see their young daughters with Range Rover, and rush to church for thanksgiving not minding what they do for a living. “Nigeria is now a society that priorities wealth over morals. We are a society that celebrated a billionaire, who already had a sizeable International harem for marrying his granddaughters’ age mate. That was our own fairy tale Cinderella story for young girls to look up to and we are surprised we ended up with chidimma? “Chidimma was probably corrupted by the small girl with big God phenomenon. “If not that their drug-induced orgy ended in murder, the man might have funded her lifestyle and she will be motivating young girls on Nigerian blogs,” he wrote. Usifo Ataga: ‘All Sugar daddies return to base, one man down’ – Nigerians react