A group under the aegis of Progressives for Yari, (P4Y), a newly formed political support group, has expressed optimism that the former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari would clinch the national chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The group, speaking in Abuja late Sunday, said it is aware of political intrigues building up over the leadership of the party at various levels, given that chances of the ex-governor keep towering day by day, but said they were being handled appropriately. Leaders of the group, Mr. Jide Kehinde, Umar Adamu and Emeka Nwafor-Ibe, who spoke separately, stressed that APC needed a National Chairman now that the 2023 general election is fast approaching. Zamfara: You will lose your seat if you leave PDP – Yari warns Gov. Matawalle They however, expressed regrets that some elements within the APC fold were desperately peddling misinformation targeted against Yari, promising that they would soon unmask those behind such demonization schemes. “APC needs a National Chairman like Yari who can really bring people together for a victorious march towards 2023; it is of extreme significance when we have such personality who is very loyal to the APC in addition to having deep capacity to drive the manifesto of the party and work for it at all levels,” they stated. P4Y noted that the various intrigues and a few court cases that do not include a single guilty verdict against their candidate are nothing to worry about. “Prompted by the latest unfounded tale being spun through mischievous online platforms alleging that multi-billion Naira gold belonging to Alhaji Yari has been seized at Kotoka International airport, some of the supporters of Alhaji Yari’s National Chairmanship aspiration have resolved to confront these intrigues head-on,” they said. They revealed plans to launch the group involving progressive elements across the six geopolitical regions preparatory for the election. “APC needs a National Chairman like Yari who can really bring people together for a victorious march towards 2023; it is of extreme significance when we have such a personality who is very loyal to the APC in addition to having deep capacity to drive the manifesto of the party and work for it at all levels”, they added. 2023: Tinubu’ll be part of those to make youth president – Yahaya Bello