President Muhammadu Buhari’s ally and a former National Chairman of the Buhari Organization TBO, Abdulmajid Danbilki Kwamanda has created a new APC Akida splitting the party into two factions in Kano. Abdulmajid Danbilki Kwamanda who has been championing the President Muhammadu Buhari ideologies since 2003 when the President first contested under the APP, said Governor Ganduje and the APC State caretaker Chairman Abdullahi Abbas should be held responsible for the crack in the party. He said, “the actions of the Governor as well the party caretaker Chairman for vehemently blocking some party loyalists who wish to contest the state gubernatorial seat negates the principles of democratic norms and internal politicking”. Kwamanda notes, “we have already designed our movements and how we are going to ensure that our new APC Akida makes it to the Government House comes 2023”. Gunmen attack: Soludo is safe – Aide
Kwamanda who was said to be suspended from the party in his Kano Municipal wards of Kofar Wambai for an alleged anti-party, activities denied knowledge of the suspension, insisting that what they did was null and void. He said one can not be suspended or sacked from a party without a fair hearing. “I think those who say they suspended me are doing a hatchet job but they have since failed because right now as you can see we have splits the party with the emergence of our Akida factions we will see who is who”. On whether President Muhammadu Buhari will be happy with the split of the APC in Kano by Kwamanda: The politician said,
“Buhari does not control my political ideologies and he knows that whatever I’m doing is the right thing”. He said their gubernatorial hopeful Senator Barau Jibrin will contest the governorship seat and they will ensure that he emerges victorious whether Governor Ganduje and his cohorts like it or not. All efforts to speak to the state acting APC Chairman Abdullahi Abbas or any government spokesperson proved abortive as their GSM lines did not connect. South-East doesn’t want war, secession – Umahi speaks on Biafra agitation