Following the defection of Zamfara State Governor, Alhaji Bello Mohammed Matawalle from the Peoples Democratic Party to the ruling get All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator representing Zamfara Central Senatorial District, Kabir Marafa, has read his riot act to the governor. The former lawmaker insisted that there were issues to be discussed following the governor’s entry into the APC to avoid confusion. He revealed that the APC chapter of Zamfara State held a three-day meeting including all the 147 Wards and 14 local governments to persuade the governor’s defection. Marafa, who contested governorship of Zamfara State in 2019 on the platform of APC without success, beat his chest, saying Zamfara APC was proud of achievement of building a party that was irresistible to the highest office holder of the state. Over 1,000 supporters of ex-Gov, Yari, Marafa dump APC, join PDP in Zamfara In a statement which was signed by Dr. Mika’ilu Barau on behalf of the political leader and sent to DAILY POST read: “The leadership of the Party considers this as a great asset to protect at all cost in the interest of its teaming members. The Party wants to achieve this by ensuring that party members are participants in the development and ratification of the terms of the decamping. “As part of the intermediate outcomes of our engagements, we requested that the planned decamping ceremony happening today, 29th June, 2021 at Gusau, the capital of Zamfara State, should be delayed until a tripartite committee comprising the leadership of APC in Zamfara State, the decamping Governor and the national leadership of APC meet to agree on the terms of the decamping. “We were made to understand that the ceremony could not be postponed due to the level of preparations reached. Marafa in the statement said that the former governor, Abdulazeez Yari declined to attend the decamping ceremony, but special appeal by the National leadership was in attendance to brief the leadership on situation of things. He added: “One important condition of the engagement is to consider the event happening in Gusau as a mere ceremony that should be guided by the proposed tripartite meeting of the state leadership of APC, Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle group with him in person and the national leadership of the party. Marafa said, the tripartite meeting should hold as soon as possible, adding that the agreement reached in the meeting should be closely monitored. According to him, the party leadership has assured the members of the commitment to work hard and reclaim the leadership position of the state. 2500 Osun APC members decamp to PDP