The Jigawa Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has said it successfully secured 30 convictions in 10 days, following the resumption of court sittings after the suspension of the nationwide strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN). NAN reports that the agency’s Commander in the state, Maryam Gambo, disclosed this on Friday while addressing newsmen to mark the 2021 United Nations’ Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. Gambo said those convicted were among 363 suspects, including 20 females arrested by the agency between July 2020 and June 2021. The commander added that 344.99kgs of assorted illicit drugs, including cannabis and other psychotropic substances, were also seized by the agency during the period under review. “From July 2020 to June 2021, the Jigawa State Command arrested a total of 363 suspects, comprising of 343 males and 20 females. And total hard drug seizures is 344.99kgs, including cannabis sativa and other psychotropic substances, valued at N2,029,930. NDLEA arrests officer for selling illicit drugs to students in Ogun “A total of 108 cases were filed at the Federal High Court, Dutse. However, due to the absence of the Federal High Court Judge and the recent judiciary workers strike, the command was only able to secure 30 convictions from June 15 2021, when courts resumed duty till date. “The convictions ranged from 3 to 20 years imprisonment, while 87 of the cases are still pending before the Court,” the commander said. According to her, 155 persons were also counseled by the command’s Drug Demand Reduction (DDR) Unit, while 14 persons were treated, rehabilitated and reintegrated back into the society. “As you may be aware, June 26 of every year has been set aside by the United Nations as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking and this year is no exception. “This became necessary to strengthen action and cooperation in achieving the goal of a world free of drug abuse. “Therefore, each year, individuals like yourself, entire communities and various organizations all over the world join in on this global observance to raise awareness on the major problem that illicit drugs represent to the society at large, and Jigawa state in particular,” she said. Gambo further urged members of the public to do their part and combat misinformation by sharing the real facts on drugs, from health risks and solutions to tackling the world’s drugs problem, to evidence-based prevention, treatment and care. NDLEA seizes 600kg of illicit drugs, convicts 21 traffickers in Akwa Ibom