The World Igbo Peoples Assembly (WIPAS), a socio-cultural organization, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari, politicians and elites of being behind the insecurity in Nigeria. The group said the President by his body language and actions have refused to address the nation and unite the fractures. The Igbo Assembly spoke in reaction to the alleged threat of war in the southeast by President Buhari. The comments are contained in a press release signed by its Board of Trustees Chairman, Mazi Chuks Ibegbu and made available to newsmen on Sunday. DAILY POST recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had vowed to clamp down on those destroying government facilities in the Southeast. Buhari spoke after meeting with the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu and other electoral commissioners in Abuja, over the series of attacks on the facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) especially in the South-Eastern part of the country. The President had alleged that unknown gunmen who attacked security operatives in the southeast region were sponsored by those who want his administration destroyed. But the Igbo socio-cultural group said Buhari has abdicated his duty to a cabal and coterie of media warriors, adding that “nobody knows who is really in charge”. “Is it Buhari or Garba Shehu or who? Nigerian politicians and parasitic elites also contribute to this by their greed and looting spree, “the group lamented. The World Igbo Peoples Assembly accused some northern individuals of sponsoring protest against the Igbos with naked propaganda that northerners are being killed in the southeast. “These misguided persons from far north who claim to be spokesmen of the north but are pursuing their selfish agenda, are the ones exaggerating the situation and making spurious claims, Ibegbu noted. ”Thousands of innocent Igbo youths have been killed by our janjaweed army and northern terrorists and nobody from the north had shown any concern. ” An Igbo businessman was abducted in Kano a few days ago while many Igbos have been killed by Boko Haram. Their sense of judgment and equity is distorted and to them, an Igbo life does not matter”. The Assembly warned the army to end its siege in the southeast, saying the area was the most peaceful in the country before the military started killing and radicalizing IPOB and pro-Biafran agitators. It, however, called on ndigbo all over the country to protect themselves since the Nigerian state has allegedly marked them for destruction. Lawan mentions those behind Nigeria’s breakup plot 