Fola Alade, the designer of iconic and well-known buildings including the 1004 Estate in Lagos State, is dead. The deceased is on record as one of Nigeria’s first four Architecture graduates. The internationally-acclaimed legend was a native of Aramoko-Ekiti in Ekiti State. He was 87 years old. Alade was also the brain behind the defunct Federal Secretariat building, Ikoyi, and the National Stadium, Surulere. Others in Lagos are the Remembrance Arcade, Tafawa Balewa Square, Satellite Town, Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Base, Ikeja. Alade also designed the Nigerian Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) building, Kuru, near Jos, National Judicial Institute (NJI), Abuja, and Nigerian Embassy buildings in 11 countries. Alade and three others graduated from the Nigerian College of Arts & Sciences and Technology, Zaria (now Ahmadu Bello University) in 1961. He completed his post graduate studies at the Architectural Association School of Tropical Studies, London in 1965, on a Commonwealth Scholarship. Alade was the first Architect to become a Federal Permanent Secretary in 1976, a post he held until his retirement in 1979. He later established his private practice Fola Alade Associates in 1979. The deceased became an associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects and Architects’ Registration Council of the United Kingdom in 1963. Alade joined the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing as a Resident Architect in the old Western Region and later Lagos City Council. He became the first Registrar of the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria in 1969 and served as the General Secretary of the Nigerian Institute of Architects. Alade was appointed as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman Governing Council of the Federal University of Port Harcourt in 1990. President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with the family, friends and admirers. He said Alade’s imprint on the nation’s distinct structures will continue to inspire younger architects from within and outside Nigeria. Buhari prayed that Almighty God will grant his soul eternal rest, and comfort all mourners.