A mild tension ensued when Big Brother Naija reality show reunion kicked off on Thursday. The reality show hosted by Ebuka Obi-Uchendu aired its first episode with the introduction of housemates career, projects and life achievements. Ebuka revisited some highlights and memorable moments from the 2020 season 5 ( The Lockdown Edition) that saw Laycon emerge as the winner. Some housemates were already itching to pour it out over what transpired during the show when Ebuka commenced official interaction. Tolanibaj and Ka3na revealed that they were ready to set the record straight about any issue they had with other housemates. Lucy snubbed Ka3na while Dorathy sounded off when she was asked about her relationship with Prince. However, while other housemates were excitedly present at the reunion, Erica and Kaisha were conspicuously missing. Ebuka who did not give any reason for their absence hinted that they would join in due course. Reacting, fans of the show took to Twitter to express their opinions about the reunion as they relieve some of the passionate moments on the Lockdown edition. Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered. IamkateMccathy2, “It’s a pity that Ka3na is an attention seeker and was probably just looking for ways to chase clout for the last time by blowing everything out of proportion, but you see that narrative of ” Ozo f** up?” Die that. OZO OWED NO ONE ANY LOYALTY that final week.” @inigeorge0, “Whatever it is between Dorathy and Prince, they should settle it, please. I love their beautiful friendship.” @Chumannoli, “Laycon has so much success to show coming into the #BBNaijaReunion and that speaks volumes of his hard work and brilliance. Dropped a beautiful album among other giant strides. The Icons’ leader is already up on the list of most successful housemates ever.” @Maurineshei, “I’m trying to stay on the side of peace as far as #BBNaijaReunion is concerned but you see Katrina and Dora, they’re making it difficult for me already. Violence is calling.” @Mamaboy, “I noticed Trikytee was working with Wathoni. I think he directs/produces her baby talk show. That’s so lovely to know. Friends that help each other grow. Happy for both of them and will try to keep a date with wathonis show and watch Triky’s movies.”