The Cross River State Police Command has arrested 126 suspected criminals in the Northern and Central Senatorial districts of the state. DAILY POST reports that 68 suspects were arrested in the Northern senatorial district while 58 were arrested in the central senatorial district of the state. Speaking to our correspondent in Calabar, the State Commissioner of Police, CP Sikiru Akande said “My officers who are in the central senatorial district have carried out similar operations and they have 58 different suspects while those in the North have about 68 different suspects “In the Southern senatorial district, we have 109 criminals arrested from different areas. We want to restore peace which is the mandates of the current police administration and we are to use all tactics to ensure that peace is restored in our region” Police arrests 17 cultists in Abuja CP Akande said in every armed robbery, there is cultism, in every kidnap, there is cultism, cultism emboldens the heart to do and undo and in most cases, these people use cultism for nefarious activity because cultism is an impressive instrument in the society Following the arrests of many suspects, The Police boss said efforts are on top gear to curb cell congestion, especially as the courts are still on strike. He said, “We are going to use the opportunity to screen them to the last person so that if it is possible for us, we put of the fire that is likely to come from that area “We will profile them and send them back to their different communities to police the place Now that we have their pictures, now that we have their fingerprints, anything that happens in that area, they will be held responsible “We have a template, criminals before now don’t have identities, now they do, we are going to profile them we are going to send them back to their community with a digital monitoring capacity. What we want to do is that we want to use them as forces against future criminality because what we have now is a large number of people from different parts of the city. ‘If anything happens in their areas, they are going to be the first suspect to be pick up. If they don’t want to suffer, they will maintain peace. The number of creeks created by these individuals are too much. Those who stay around these areas, when they see strange faces say something” he stated. Police arrest 16 persons over cultism, recover firearms, ammunition in Enugu