Worried by the proliferation of private schools, the Yobe State Government through the Ministry for Basic and Secondary Education has set up a Special Committee to check irregularities in private schools across the state. This is with a view to clampdown on erring operators who turned the important sector into a money-making venture without regard to qualitative education. To achieve this, the State Commissioner of Basic and Secondary Education, Dr. Muhammad Sani Idriss who inaugurated the Committee on Friday noted that some of the approved private schools had deviated from the operational guidelines issued to them by the state government. Dr. Idriss said any private school operating in the state must follow standard procedures of operation including regards for people’s religion, culture and tradition. The commissioner has also added that, “all private schools in the state must not deviate from the cultural norms of the people of Yobe state; all private schools in the state must not prioritize financial gains over impacting sound education; all private schools in the state must also support the policies and programs of Buni administration in promoting the education sector in the state”. According to the commissioner, his ministry won’t hesitate to shutdown any private school that failed to abide by the established conditions. In a message, Gov. Buni appealed to members of the committee to put in their best in assisting government to effectively implement policies and programmes in the sector that will change the narrative for the better. The governor also appreciated the efforts of those ‘serious private’ school operators in providing sound education to learners in the state. It has been observed that, since the coming of Mai Mala Buni as the Governor of Yobe State, Ministry for Basic and Secondary Education has brought changes in the education system leading to better performance of the students in the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination, National Examination Council and JAMB’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, (UTME) among others.