A farmer, Jimoh Olodan who was kidnapped at Iyemero Ekiti in Ikole local government area of Ekiti State, on Friday, has been freed. The farmer was said to have been found inside the forest around 5.30 am on Monday, by a search party composed of security agencies and local hunters. Olodan was abducted, on Friday, at Elegure farmstead near Iyemero, after bandits numbering 18, stormed the community in search of the successful farmer. Again, bandits kidnap farmer in Ekiti The bandits later called on Saturday and demanded a ransom of N30 million from the family. A source confided in newsmen in Ado Ekiti, on Monday, that the farmer was released due to concerted efforts taken by local hunters, vigilante Group of Nigeria, Oodua Peoples Congress and the Amotekun Corps. He said the N2 million paid was an instalment payment, saying the security men were able to tighten the noose on the bandits through combing of the sprawling forest between Ekiti-Kogi-Kwara borders. “The family had on Sunday paid a sum of N2 million out of the ransom requested for with a mission to continue with negotiation after getting the first tranche of the money. “But the search team in Iyemero Ekiti who went on combing the entire forest to the borders of Ekiti with Kogi and Kwara States went deep into the forest and pursued them to the night time. “Upon realising that the search party was closing in on them, they abandoned the man and ran away. “We thank God that the man was released unhurt and he was in good and sound health”, he said. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, said the police led the search team that recovered the farmer from bandits. “I think I told you on Saturday that the police immediately swung into action upon hearing that the farmer was kidnapped. “So, we led the search team that chased the bandits into the forest to ensure that the victim was freed”. Abutu said the police were not aware of the N2 million earlier paid by the family as an instalment payment to secure his release. 