The Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo, has in the wake of spreading bandits and other criminal groups across Northwest Nigeria, agreed to move the Desert Warfare Institute to Kano. This was disclosed by Rear Admiral COR Ezekobe, Chief of Policy and Plans, Nigerian Navy, when he led a delegation to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje at his office in Kano on Wednesday to brief him about the development. He said: “We are here to actualize the fruitful engagement we had when His Excellency visited us on the 3rd of June. The Chief of Naval Staff directed me to lead this team in actualising some of the promises made to you when you visited the Naval headquarters. “Our project standing on 12 hectares of land, is a multi-purpose project. We are moving our Desert Warfare of our Special unit to Kano Your Excellency. This unit is highly trained in both the United States of America and Britain. And they are recognized to be of best performance.” He explained that they would also put Nigerian Navy Logistics School on the land given to the Nigerian Navy by the state government. While requesting for more land, he emphasized that, “This is where we will use for a garment industry and other things that will be of significant benefit to the society. “We would like to develop a Barack, so that when the need arises we can defend ourselves and also the state. That will definitely help in improving the security of the state in particular and the nation in general.” He requested that the Chief of Naval Staff would want to deliver a lecture on Maritime in either Bayero University, Kano, for people to understand the activities of the Nigerian Navy in the national scheme of things. Admiral Ezkobe requested another piece of land on behalf of the Naval Officers Wives Association (NOWA) for the establishment of a hospital in the state. “Naval Officers Wives Association (NOWA) is desirous of establishing a 200-bedded hospital in Kano. We also need to get a piece of land for this effort to see the light of the day. “Your Excellency we witnessed the tremendous development in your state. This is highly commendable Sir,” he concluded. In his response, Ganduje appreciated the speed of the process for the visibility of the Nigerian Navy in the state. “We are so happy to have you here. I can see that the return match is so quick. This shows the level of seriousness on your part. “Your presence in Kano will definitely boost the morale of our youth in joining the Nigerian Navy. It will also improve our security of the state generally,” he stated. “We are very much ready for all the requests you came with pertaining this and other projects for the development of the state. And for improving the security of our dear state. We are always ready.” Concerning the Chief of Naval Staff Conference, governor Ganduje said the state would always be ready to see to the realisation of the proposed Conference, adding that, “For the Conference we will create an enabling environment for it to hold.” Governor Ganduje concluded that, “We will also facilitate the proposed Maritime lecture by the Chief of Naval Staff in one of our universities. There is no doubt about this. Tell him he is always welcome.” Attahiru: Navy cancels 65th anniversary celebration over COAS’s death