The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, OYC, has claimed that there was a fresh plot against Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka of the Adoration Ministry, Enugu. This was contained in a statement issued on Friday by the group’s President-General, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike and the Secretary-General, Comrade Obinna Achuonye. He alleged that there was a sinister plot to silence Mbaka for his recent outspokenness against the powers that be. Okwu warned that, “Mbaka’s life is so dear and precious to millions of Nigerians and for that nothing should happen to him. Ejike Mbaka: “Buhari wants to set Nigeria ablaze”- Omokri reacts to alleged arrest “We know that those after him have not given up, their next plan now will be to come for his life.” The group again came hard on the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Bishop Calistus Onaga, accusing him of allowing himself to be used against his own priest. Okwu said, “Former Bishop Eneje in all his holiness took care of the adoration ministry and handed over to Bishop Gbuji, who continued in like manner, by treating Fr. Mbaka as a loving father. “But in the case of Bishop Onaga, it has been a different thing; We ask the Bishop- what is going on, why should you allow the adoration ministry to suffer unnecessarily in your own time? Nigerians react as Mbaka calls for Buhari’s impeachment “The Bishop is busy doing atonement for the glasses broken at the hotel in the Bishop’s Court, but has there been any effort from him to remedy the broken hearts, souls of the poor masses who are beneficiaries of the adoration ministry and Fr. Mbaka’s charity? What of those in school on his charity and those who depend on him for their daily bread and daily spiritual nourishment, what of the poor masses? “The adoration ministry is now like a sheep without a shepherd, the tension continues to heighten, as the whole country is in crisis.” He urged the Bishop to consider millions of people affected by the 30 days punishment given to Fr. Mbaka, including orphans and the less-privileged. “Fr Emmanuel Obinna (Ebube Muonso) of Onitsha Archdiocese and Fr. Smart Nwosu of Nnewi Diocese and other catholic priests have in one way or the other blessed Mazi Nnamdi Nkanu, why is Fr. Mbaka’s own different? “Why is it difficult for Bishop Onaga to hands-off Mbaka and stop playing the card of the federal government and Princess who want to destroy the church and cause a crisis in Enugu,” he further claimed. Insecurity: Fr Mbaka under attack for calling for Buhari’s impeachment