The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has announced its 3rd edition of the National Essay Competition. NCC’s Director of Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde said the competition was for undergraduates from both the private and public universities across the country. Adinde disclosed that this year’s essay would be centered around Fifth Generation Technology, 5G, with the topic: “5G Technology: Opportunities and Challenges.” A statement by Adinde said: “The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) wishes to invite entries for its 2021 National Essay Competition for undergraduates. This year’s edition, the third in the series, will focus on Fifth Generation (5G) technology with the following objectives: “Increase awareness on 5G Technology. Engage and enhance research. Encourage academic competition and excellence. Build capacity of undergraduates in Nigerian tertiary institutions. “All undergraduates in Nigerian Tertiary Institutions (Private and Public).” NCC also directed interested candidates on how to register of the Essay Competition. “All participants are expected to register their personal details in the form provided for download on the NCC website, signed by their Deans as genuine Nigerian Undergraduates. All Essays will be subjected to plagiarism checks. “Winners will be invited by the Committee members to defend their essays by way of presentation. Candidates that cannot successfully defend their submissions will be disqualified,” the commission said. The Commission also highlighted criteria for assessing candidates. “All entries will be assessed based on the following: Essay should contain a maximum of 1,000 words and a minimum of 500 words on the topic. The Essay must have an abstract, an introduction, the main body and a conclusion. The Essay must be referenced. “Essay will go through a rigorous selection process and scrutinised based on content, grammar and structure. All essays must be submitted to the NCC in PDF format with all necessary attachments.” The statement further listed prizes up for grabs by candidates to include; a laptop, Printer and Cash Prize of N500,000 for the 1st prize, a Cash Prize of N300,000 for the second position and a Cash Prize of N200,000 for the 3rd position The deadline for submission of all entries is Friday, July 30, 2021. Winning essays will be announced on Monday, September 13, 2021. The NCC advised that all entries be sent to the following email: aogbadu@ncc.gov.ng and Facebook link: http://www.facebook.com/Nigerian.communications.commission. ”For further inquiries, please contact 234-9-4617000 or 234-9-4617153. ”Click here to download the registration form. https://www.ncc.gov.ng/media-centre/public-notices/1016-3rd-ncc-national-essay-competition-topic-5g-technology-opportunities-and-challenges