Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has sought the support of the United Nations for the passage of a pending electoral bill by the National Assembly and subsequent executive assent. The Governor made the demand at the weekend at the government house, Uyo, the State capital when the United Nations SDGs Resident Humanitarian Coordinator, Mr. Edward Kallon, paid him a courtesy visit. The Ambassador also presented a UN SDGs Champion Laurel to the Governor for aligning with the organisation’s Sustainable Development Goals in his investment drive. Mr Emmanuel said the passage of the Electoral Bill would enhance true democracy and encourage people to have confidence in government as well as the choice of their preferred candidate at the polls He said, “I’ll like to hear your voice or see your script adding to our call that the National Assembly should pass our Electoral Bill and our President to assent to that bill; because everything you’ve analyzed will still boil down to the people getting who they believe can implement those things for them by exercising their power at the polls.” He also called on the UN contingent to extend the magnanimity shown to other countries and states to Akwa Ibom to help it achieve the 17 pillars of SDGs promising to effectively utilize and account for any assistance they may render. His words, “anyway, anyhow you can help us, we are honestly looking up to it. Whatever support given to us will be well utilised and accounted for.” He further called for appropriate documentation of the state’s historic sites, such as the Amalgamation House where the proclamation of Northern and Southern protectorates took place in 1914 and the Bridge of No Return, used as a medium of the slave trade, at Ikot Abasi in the state. He added that such would boost tourism as well as the economy in the state. In his reaction, Edward Kallon said he aims to partner with the state government in promoting peace as well as addressing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the region. Commenting on insecurity and other socio-economic challenges in Nigeria, Kallon Said, ‘Nigeria must address urgently the five critical risk factors of security and stability in the country; social cohesion equality and non-discrimination, justice, the rule of law and displacement and migration, to ensure peace and enabling environment for development”. Claims of zero allocation to LG bosses, totally false – Akwa Ibom Assembly insists