The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State has described the rally held in front of the house of Senator Kolawole Ogunwale, a PDP stalwart in Iragbiji by the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as hitting the panic button when it is not necessary. The Osun State Commissioner for Women, Children and Social Affairs, Barrister Olubukola Olaboopo had on Sunday morning led some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on a rally in Iragbiji town. The rally was held to counter the PDP rally held for defectors which held in the town on Saturday, 26th June, 2021. The PDP had accused the Commissioner of holding the rally in front of the house of Senator Kolawole Ogunwale, a PDP stalwart. The PDP Director of Media and Publicity, Oladele Bamiji in a chat with DAILY POST on Sunday stated that the PDP rally in Iragbiji was held because the people were tired of the system and they yearned for a better platform that will address their problems. Oladele while explaining that a democratic society required people to make choices noted that the only visible and feasible platform for the people to express this was for them to belong to the PDP which is more like a movement now sweeping across the state and the country. According to him, “The rally came about when some prominent inhabitants and known relatives of the state governor and ancestral relatives of the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu decided to decamp from their political party to the PDP. Bayelsa: APC stalwart denies alleged feud between Sylva, Lyon “Since politics is not monarchical, they felt it was wrong for some people to continue to deceive them on the basis of affiliation. “They said they were no more comfortable with the APC and decided to join the moving train of the Osun PDP.” The PDP spokesperson who revealed that the APC had initially stated that the Iragbiji defection rally was a non issue wondered why the Commissioner for Women, Children and Social Affairs on a Sunday morning brought out old women and youths to hold a counter rally. “It is uncalled for and awful. Instead of the party to allow people to go and worship their God in peace. This is part of the accusations we have been levelling against the APC, they care more about parochial interest and less of dignity of man. “They shared brooms around and asked them to go to the house of a prominent PDP leader in Iragbiji, Senator Kolawole Ogunwale who happens to be the Asiwaju of Iragbiji and harass him with different types of abuses. “This moral deficiency is wrong. There are certain things you cannot do in the name of politics. It is traditional with the Yorubas that you don’t abuse leaders and fathers. “By virtue of Senator Ogunwale’s position in that town, he is father there and you don’t go out in the morning abusing such a man. “When we were doing our own rally, it was peaceful and we didn’t not disturb people’s peace and abuse people.” All attempts to get through to the Commissioner proved abortive and messages sent to her went through without any reply. DAILY POST also reached out to her through her Personal Assistant who requested that a copy of the question be sent through him to forward to the Commissioner but as at press time, no response was forthcoming and the line has been switched off. Oduduwa Republic: Sunday Igboho set to shutdown Lagos