The Northern Youth Council of Nigeria, NYCN says it has observed with concern the recent rate of killings and destruction of properties in the Southeast The NYCN says the insecurity was detrimental to the unity and development of the country. The group noted that the destruction of lives and properties have negative consequences on the future of the region and the country as a whole, stressing that the country may not experience the patronage of foreign investors. National President of the group, Isah Abubakar, in a statement on Monday in Kaduna, said he notes with grave concern, the gory scenes of attack and looting of goods of traders moving from North to Southeastern Nigeria by those it called misguided elements. Northern youths call for removal, prosecution of CCT Chairman, Danladi Umar over alleged assault It added that it had led to the loss of lives and capital for those who managed to survive such attacks. The group condemned the silence of Governors and other political leaders of the South-East, saying “We have picked the signal, we wish to remind them that they were elected to protect lives and property of all and sundry and defend the spirit and letters of Nigeria Constitution, therefore they must wake up from their slumber and protect the lives and property of law-abiding Nigerians in their jurisdiction. The group lamented that the continued molestation of Nigerians is becoming unbearable, pointing out that it is unfortunate that the traditional leaders are also less concerned about the unlawful attitude of their subjects. “We wish to therefore urge Mr President to assert his authority as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and crushed all elements that have picked up arms against the state. Too much blood is being spilt in the land, we can’t stand the sight of it again.” Attahiru: Kaduna plane crash must be investigated – Nigeria Youth Council The group also called on Mr President to initiate processes of extraditing Nnamdi Kanu into the country to face the charges he temporarily escaped from, saying they believe strongly that Nnamdi Kanu the self-styled leader of IPOB is a jail bound bird that is only enjoying temporary liberty pending on when he will be brought back to the country. The statement explained that in the instance that the leaders of South-East fail to call their children to order, Mr President should declare a state of Emergency in the Five States on the region until the few renegades who have picked up arms against others are subdued. Group commends Police for timely elimination of Ahmed Gulak’s killers