Contrary to the widespread rumour that Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed is defecting to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Bauchi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday dismissed the claims. The rumour of an imminent defection of Governor Mohammed spread like wildfire following a photograph of the Governor and his Yobe State counterpart, Mai Mala Buni, who is the chairman of APC Caretaker Committee, which surfaced on social media. Putting a lie to the rumour, the Bauchi PDP through its Publicity Secretary, Yayanuwa Zainabari, told journalists in Bauchi that it was nothing but a mere speculation and the figment of the imagination of those spreading it. Ayade: Two govs, Senators, Reps members’ll defect from PDP to APC – Primate Ayodele According to Zainabari, there was never any time Governor Mohammed muted any idea of defecting to the ruling APC, wondering why the Governor, who he said had won the heart of the people of the state through his good governance, would defect from PDP. “As far as the PDP in Bauchi State is concerned, the speculation remains speculation because there was never a time the Governor muted such idea not to talk of taking a decision along that line. “You are a witness to how members of other political parties are trooping to join the PDP because of the act of good governance by the governor under the umbrella of the PDP. “Why will such a person who has won the heart of the people of the state just decide to dump them. No, it is not true,” the party’s publicity secretary declared. While calling on the people of the State to disregard the rumour, Zainabari assured that the governor remained not only a member but also the leader of PDP in Bauchi State. He, however, acknowledged the fact that human beings have things that influence their decisions. “Yes, as humans, we have things that influence our decision. As of today, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed is a member of the PDP. Two PDP lawmakers join Ayade in APC
“Today and tomorrow all belong to God. I don’t know what will happen tomorrow but for now, the PDP is intact with the governor as the leader,” he said. He declared that, “as a party, we are not doubting the efforts of the governor in moving Bauchi State to a better state than how it was in 2019.” In another development, over 3,000 members of the APC, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Toro Local Government Area of the state have defected from their respective parties and joined PDP in the State. Speaking through their spokesman, Bala Ahmad Zalau, the defectors declared that though most of them joined the APC because of President Muhammadu Buhari, their support for the ruling party was in vain as they did not have any significant impacts of the government in their areas. According to Zalau, all their elected representatives at both national and state levels had performed below expectation, noting that they (representatives) neither influenced any developmental projects to their LGA nor hardly come to the constituency to meet the people. “The best option for us is to leave the APC, PRP and NNPP in order to team up with the PDP led by the governor, Senator Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir in its resolve to develop the state infrastructure and build up the people,” Zalau said. Receiving the defectors into the ruling PDP, the Bauchi South Zonal Vice Chairman of the party, Idris Hassan Zaranda, assured them that they had taken the right decision of joining PDP. DAILY POST reposts that the defectors are made up of 286 people from Rahama; 262 from Rishi; 329 from Tama and 187 people from Zalau. Four hundred and sixty nine people defected to PDP from Womu North, while 684 are from Lame and 517 from Womu South.