Gunmen whose whereabouts are still unknown have killed an On Air Personality (OAP), Mr. Titus Badejo. DAILY POST gathered on Sunday that Badejo formerly worked with Naija FM, Ibadan, Oyo State. A source said that the Ogbomoso indigene was killed around 11.30 pm at Oluyole area of Ibadan. It was gathered that two masked gunmen on a motorcycle shot the deceased who was with some of his friends. Our correspondent learnt that the OAP, whose nickname is Eja Nla, had been in the club with his friends since 9.pm but was accosted around 11.30 pm while leaving the club. Police launch search for Yagba West Council Boss, as gunmen kill Kogi Commissioner It was gathered that the death of the OAP is coming a week after he celebrated his 40th birthday. DAILY POST gathered that the two masked men suddenly stopped, wielding guns and asking Badejo and his colleagues to lie down. It was gathered that the unknown gunmen aimed at the OAP and shot him repeatedly before leaving. They ensured that the OAP was dead before they left the scene without taking anything from him or his friends. The policemen from Oluyole Division were said to have gone to the scene, from where his body was taken to the mortuary. Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Mr Adewale Osifeso confirmed the incident. Osifeso in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Sunday noted that the manager of the club reported the incident to the Police. “At about 0730hrs, Sunday 20th June 2021, One Damilola Afolabi ‘m’, Manager at Club 407,Oluyole Ibadan reported at Oluyole Divisional Police Headquarters that on Saturday 19th June, 2021 one Titus Badejo Journalist and Freelance Disc Jockey with the club was shot outside the club premises by unknown assailants,” he said. “However, comprehensive investigations are in top gear to unravel circumstances surrounding the incident and to apprehend the assailants. Verifiable updates would be provided soonest, please.” Uzodinma, Okorocha, Wike must pay for their sins, will never be forgiven – IPOB