The Lagos State House of Assembly, on Monday disagreed with some local government chairmen over the latter’s claims of paucity of funds as a hindrance to the development of infrastructure in their Local Government Areas (LGAs). The Chairman, House Committee on Local Government and Community Affairs, Mr Olayiwola Olawale, made his feelings known in Ikorodu during an oversight tour of the LGA and the Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in the zone. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other members of the house committee were Mr Joseph Kehinde, Alimosho II, Mr Rasheed Makinde, Ifako Ijaiye II, Mr Nureni Akinsanya Mushin I and Mr Rauf Age-Sulaimon Amuwo Odofin II. Olawale disputed the claims of the council chairmen, arguing that there were enough funds flowing from the federal and state governments into local council coffers. The lawmaker representing Mushin Constituency II noted that the issue was the lack of creative ways of generating funds to help the councils to develop their infrastructure. Olawale said the Ikorodu council and the LCDAs were surrounded by commercial ventures even though they were agrarian communities, adding that there was a need for them to be re-oriented and enlightened on how to generate funds. “I don’t know what they mean by the paucity of funds. You and I know that there are enough funds coming from the federal, as well as the state, into the local government administrations. “What I discovered is that they are not putting genuine effort into the local administration of funds. They are not using their creative ways to generate funds. “Agreed, it is an agrarian area but still surrounded by many commercial ventures that they can tap on. “The leadership of the councils still needs to be re-orientated and enlightened on how to generate funds,” he said. Corroborating, a member of the committee, Mr Kehinde, said the claims of a paucity of funds was not tenable as the councils had not been able to measure up with the given allocation. Kehinde, representing Alimosho Constituency II, said he did not believe that the Ikorodu Local Government Council did not have enough and questioned what they had been using their allocations for. The lawmaker said most of them have yet to make severance payments to political office holders, as directed. He said: “Before our visitation, I was one of those people that usually believed that Ikorodu did not have money. “If they are saying they don’t have enough funds, are they judiciously spending the money they have collected,’’ he asked.