The new Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, on Monday, resumed duty in the state with the assurance to focus on community policing, which he described as the best form of policing. Speaking when he resumed at the State Police Command headquarters in Bauchi on Monday, declared that security was everybody’s business, hence he would ensure that the local community participated in the act of effective policing of the state. “I am from Ekiti State; I don’t know anywhere here in Bauchi State. I will need the community leaders to cooperate with the police in order to be able to effectively police the entire state. That is what is called community policing,” he said. According to him, from what he had noticed so far, Bauchi State was the most peaceful state in the entire North-East zone. “Policing Bauchi State is going to be easy because from what I have heard before I came here, couple with what I have seen the few days I have spent here, Bauchi State is the most peaceful state to live in among others in the North -East subregion,” CP Alabi said. He declared that despite being a peaceful state, the police would not go to sleep without carrying out their duties, assuring that the police would continue to do their best in providing adequate security for lives and properties of the people of the state and would not condone any act of criminality. The new police boss further assured that human rights of the people of the state would be respected, daring that, “only the guilty will be prosecuted.” He, however, appealed for maximum cooperation from the people of the state and urged them to volunteer useful information that would help the police to arrest criminal suspects and prevent crimes. While handing over to CP Alabi, his predecessor, Lawal Tanko Jimeta, charged officers and men of the command to support and cooperate with the new commissioner. Jimeta described his successor as a seasoned police officer who has distinguished himself in the Nigeria Police Force since he was commissioned. He, however, tasked Alabi to always seek advice as he gradually settled down, submitting that, “police duty demands collectivity, cooperation and working together. I, therefore, urge you to seek useful advice as you lead the troop.”