The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Kaduna State Chapter, has condemned in strong terms the rising spate of insecurity in the state. The party noted that it is no longer news that the state has become the hotbed of Kidnappings, armed banditry and other social vices in the country today. The State Publicity Secretary of the party, Abraham Alberah Catoh, in a statement, explained, “The recent abduction of 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna by bandits (kidnappers), the foiled Government Science Secondary School, Ikara attack and that of aviation staff quarters, the kidnap of 3 teachers from government Primary School in Rema Village, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, the attack on the convoy of the Emir of Birnin Gwari and so many unreported incidences in some suburbs, as well as villages within the state are not only alarming but frightening.” The party added that the current level of insecurity in the state where people find it difficult to sleep and a situation where parents are scared of sending their children to school, economic and social activities threatened and hampered is appalling and unprecedented. According to the statement, “the party is worried by the situation wherein criminals have freely turned the kidnapping of innocent school students and other vulnerable citizens for ransom, into a lucrative business following the lacklustre approach and media propaganda under the El-Rufai’s administration in the fight against banditry/terrorism in our dear state.” The party observed, “This and many more, indicates the failure of governance under the APC-led administration in the state and validates concerns that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its administration is bereft of solutions to fight and nip in the bud the spate of insecurity under their watch.” It challenged Governor Nasir El-Rrufai to wake up to his responsibilities of securing lives and property of the citizens of the State, by dealing decisively with the criminals. The party said, it therefore, demand the immediate rescue of the Afaka 39 and all other kidnapped victims alive from the hands of their abductors. “Regrettably, our party weeps over the unfortunate situation that our state is being plunged into crises caused by ineffective security command structure and strategy,” the statement lamented. The party sympathised with the families of the victims of these dastardly acts.