Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday morning received the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine on Live Television a day after some frontline health workers were also vaccinated. 2. Scores of bandits terrorising some parts of Kaduna State, yesterday, stepped up their game when they attacked the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) quarters in Kaduna and went away with nine persons in the early hours of the day. 3. Former Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, on Saturday, described the incumbent governor of the state, Godwin Obaseki, as his brother and friend. The two hitherto political rivals met in Auchi, Edo State, at the Centenary Birthday Thanksgiving of Msgr. Thomas Oleghe and 18th Canonical Erection Anniversary of the Diocese of Auchi. 4. The Nigerian Army yesterday announced the appointment of new General Officers Commanding, Principal Staff Officers, Commandant of tri-service institutions, and army training centres. The announcement was contained in a statement on Saturday, by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Yerima. 5. The Presidency yesterday, reassured Nigerians on the safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines administered on President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday. The president’s spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, gave the assurance in a statement in Abuja on Saturday evening. 6. The FG has dismissed a newspaper report that it will be expending N10.6 billion on the distribution of the 3.9 million doses of Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine to the 36 states. Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib made the clarification yesterday. 7. The Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, a factional umbrella body for herdsmen in the country, has said it is opposed to the ban imposed on open grazing of cattle by South-West governors. 8. Three suspected cult members were yesterday, apprehended by the Lagos State Police Command as two cutlasses including an operational bus were recovered from them. In a statement on Saturday, the police spokesperson in the state, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi confirmed the arrest. 9. The PTF Chairman, Boss Mustapha, yesterday, said that the COVID-19 vaccination certificate, will soon become a compulsory requirement for travelling to anywhere in the world. He stated this shortly after President Buhari and VP Osinbajo were vaccinated at the New Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 195 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 17 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. NCDC made the announcement on Saturday night via a report on its official website.