With the heavy downpour experienced in Osogbo Wednesday night, residents of some parts of the state capital woke up to a sight of destruction. This development, DAILY POST observed was as a result of the heavy wind that accompanied the downpour. Mostly affected were included Isale-Osun, Odi-Olowo, some parts of Baruwa Estate and Ogo-Oluwa. Some of the residents stated that rainfalls in March are usually destructive. A shop owner in Ogo-Oluwa popularly called Iya Jamiu, stated that the wind that accompanied the rain ended up blowing away the roof of her shop. According to her, “Immediately I observed the pattern of the wind, I knew there was going to be another round of destruction just as we have been experiencing annually. “The first rain that begins in March is always accompanied by strong winds and this ends up wrecking a lot of havoc. “It is a thing we experience yearly and I have to spend money again to repair the damage caused to my shop as a result of the wind.” Bright Oluwabunmi, a resident revealed that in Odi-Olowo, a minibus popularly called Korope narrowly missed being hit by an electric pole when it was uprooted by the wind. He stated that when he saw it, he became afraid and had to run to avert any injury to his person. Mrs. Daramola stated that she observed many people taking refuge in metal container shops when it became apparent that it would rain yesterday evening. She maintained that it was a dangerous action to take considering that these shops were metal that could act as an electricity conductor during lightening and the containers could also be blown away by a very strong wind. Meanwhile, traders that were affected by the construction work on the Olaiya flyover have also complained that the start of the rains was going to take a toll on their businesses. Many of the business owners who had kiosks and shops at the Olaiya Junction were forced to relocate in February when the Osun State Government started work on the Olaiya flyover. For now, most of them have to make do with makeshift kiosks that offer no protection from the natural elements. DAILY POST reports that the flyover project is supposed to span nine months and the commission date is set for November, 2021.