The Lagos State Government has announced plans to shut the road between Maza-Maza and Signal Barracks, Mile 2, along Lagos Badagry Expressway for repairs. The state Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, announced that the repairs will commence on Monday, March 29th to May 31, 2021. Oladeinde in a statement, said that alternative routes have been made available with adequate traffic management measures in place to ensure movement despite the usual inconveniences. Part of the statement read: “Motorists heading towards Apapa from Maza Maza are advised to use the newly constructed slip road by the Total Filling station to connect the ramp and access Apapa. “Also those heading to Orile/Suru from Maza Maza will be diverted to the opening at Total Filling Station to link Toll lane and continue the movement to Orile or through the opening at Signal Barracks to access the service lane from toll lane to continue their journey. “Motorists going to Oshodi from Maza Maza are also advised to ply the opening at Total Filling station to connect toll lane and drive down to the opening after Mile 2 underpass to utilize the opening before Signal Barracks and access the ramp with counterflow to Apapa-Oworonshoki Expressway to arrive at Oshodi. “Those coming from Oshodi to Orile will be directed to Mile 2 Oke to connect the ramp to Signal Barracks and go ahead to Orile while those going back to Oshodi are advised to make a U-turn and continue their trip to oshodi. “Other motorists from Otto Wharf should use the opening before Signal Barracks and connect the toll lane to continue their journey to Alaba/Orile.” The commissioner urged residents to comply with traffic diversion to achieve the set goals of seamless movement. The Commissioner assured that the state’s Traffic Management Personnel Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, will be deployed to the axis to manage traffic. He warned that under no circumstances should officials be assaulted in the course of duty, as anyone caught in the act will be dealt with decisively.