The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) zone B, has condemned a former Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Adejare Bello for allegedly assaulting a journalist. DAILY POST gathered that Bello, who is the Ambassador of Nigeria to Mexico, on Friday assaulted a member of Osun State Council of NUJ, Adeniyi Akinromade of OSBC. NUJ B Zone while reacting, called on Bello to publicly apologise to the victim and the general public. This was contained in a communique issued at the end of an emergency meeting of the zone held at NUJ Press Centre in Ibadan, Oyo State on Friday. DAILY POST reports that the emergency meeting was attended by Bamigbola Gbolagunte (Zonal Secretary), Adeleye Ajayi (Lagos Chairman) Ademola Babalola (Oyo Chairman) Wasiu Ajadosu (Osun Chairman), Adetona Aderoboye (Ondo Chairman) Kayode Babatuyi (Ekiti Secretary), Tunde Olalere (Lagos Secretary), Bukola Elufadejin (Osun Secretary) Sola Oladapo (Oyo Secretary) and Leke Adegbite (Ondo Secretary).
The union in a communique signed by Adeleye Ajayi (Chairman), Kayode Babatuyi (Member) and Bukola Elufadejin (Member), urged Bello to apologise without further delay. The zone also declared that Mr. Olalekan Oni ceased to hold the position of Zonal VP based on the fact that he has exhausted his 6 months constitutional grace in line with Article 6 (8) of the union’s constitution. The zone also concluded that the Zonal Secretary, Mr. Bamigbola Gbolagunte should hold forth as the acting Vice-President of the zone pending the conduct of a bye election that will produce a substantive VP.
The communique reads, “Having critically examined petitions from representatives of three chapels of Oyo Council over the status of the VP Zone B, Mr. Cosmas Oni, the meeting recommends as follows: “That the medium claimed by the VP (Kings FM Ibadan) is not a registered chapel by the Oyo State Council and this negates his financial membership status as stated in Article 4 (1a) of the Constitution of NUJ. “That the VP retired on 19th August 2020 and has exhausted 6 months grace period stated in the Constitution. “That the VP shall cease to hold the position based on the fact that he has exhausted his 6 months constitutional grace in line with Article 6 (8) of the union’s constitution. “That the Zonal Secretary, Mr. Bamigbola Gbolagunte should hold forth as the acting Vice-President of the zone pending the conduct of a bye election that will produce a substantive VP. “That a befitting retirement ceremony be organized for the VP having served the union meritoriously. “The Zonal leaders condemned in entirety an assault on a member of Osun State Council, Adeniyi Akinromade of OSBC by Ambassador Adejare Bello and called on him to publicly apologise. “The zone commended Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State for donating Hummer Buses to Lagos and Oyo councils of NUJ respectively. The Zone also called on other South West Governors and leaders to emulate this good gesture towards journalists in their respective states.”