The Tertiary Education Trust Fund, TETFund, has warned beneficiary tertiary institutions not to truncate the funds’ efforts at delivering services in line with its mandate. The fund says its desire to achieve results, could be jeopardized if institutions render dysfunctional services. The Executive Secretary of the fund, Prof Suleiman Bogoro, has now charged the 226 public tertiary institutions enjoying interventions to ensure efficient service delivery and allow the Nigerian tertiary education sector to compete favourably with the best in the world. Prof Bogoro gave the charge in Abuja at a workshop organised by the fund for officers and directors of quality assurance of its 226 beneficiary institutions with the theme: “building skills for effective service delivery.” The TETFund boss noted that the workshop being the first of its kind, was organised to engender synergy between the agency and it’s beneficiary institutions. “The hallmark of the fund is built on the bedrock of effectiveness and efficiency. This is because of the anticipated impact we seek to achieve in all our beneficiary institutions,” he said. Represented by the Director, Office of the Executive Secretary, TETFund, Arc. Uchendu Wogu, Bogoro said the training would equip participants with skill-oriented ideas in the face of global competitiveness. He emphasised that the areas of interest in the training include “Quality assurance methods and enforcement in infrastructure and content abased interventions in the beneficiary institutions,” as well as “strategic planning, corporate objectives and call analysis; effective communication and efficient service delivery in the era of ICT,” among others. Speaking on the expected outcome of the workshop, the National Coordinator of SERICOM, Nnena Akajemeli, expressed confidence that the training will enhance better management of processes and systems, and would be monitored to also measure compliance. According to Akajemeli, when processes and systems are monitored to measure compliance, satisfaction and quality service delivery would also be assured. “We expect effective partnership thereafter and the new intervention guidelines are also here and so they are going to take them through the processes of these guidelines and what it entails. ‘It is preparing them to come forward with their expected obligations; so at the end, we expect enhanced engagement between the beneficiary institutions and their service provider, TETFund,” she said.