Former President, Donald Trump has condemned the policy of his successor, Joe Biden on the controversial wall at the Mexican border. In an interview aired on Fox News Saturday night, Trump described Biden’s reversal of the “Remain in Mexico” policy as a “very bad decision”. Also known as the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP), the programme initiated in 2019 turned back certain individuals from Mexico pursuant to Section 235(b)(2)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). Trump told Judge Jeanine Pirro via telephone that a lot of people wanted him to visit the border and that he would be there in the coming weeks. “Thousands and thousands of people are coming up right now as we speak. And you’re going to have millions of people pouring into our country. And it’s going to destroy our country. “I don’t know what they are doing and they don’t know what they are doing. It’s a very very dangerous situation. I’d love to be involved, somebody else is suppose to be doing it. “The border patrol wants me to go over the next couple of weeks. I don’t think there’s a rush for me to go. He (Biden) is supposed to go and make the decision. “Not only people, drugs are coming in, in a number that we’ve never seen before now. We stopped it largely. The wall was just a few weeks from being completed. He didn’t want to complete it.” Trump recalled that it took two and half years before the wall construction commenced. He pointedly blamed the Democrats in Congress. “Pelosi and everyone sued us 11 different times. So after we won, we started. They should finish the wall and have the Stay in Policy reinserted because if you don’t have that, this is going to be a disaster.” In his first news conference on Thursday, President Biden announced that some families are not going back because Mexico is refusing to take them. The American leader confirmed his administration was in negotiations with President Andrés López Obrador. “That’s going to change. They should all be going back,” he added.