President Muhammadu Buhari has sent a powerful delegation to Katsina State over the market fire incident that destroyed goods and property worth billions of Naira during the week. Buhari said the delegation led by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami was to get a first hand information on the level of damage and discuss with the governments of Katsina and Zamfara on how his administration can assist them. Buhari, according to a statement signed by Garba Shehu, his Spokesman, said the Federal government will work with the States to assist those who suffered loses in the devastating fire incidents in their major markets. In separate messages delivered by the Malami-led delegation in Katsina and Gusau, the two State capitals, Buhari expressed concern at the destruction of billions of Naira worth of goods and property in the inferno. The President noted that the unfortunate fire incidents came at a time when the effects of COVID-19 on economies around the world had taken a toll on virtually all businesses. The President also noted that many of the traders had stocked wares in anticipation of the boom in sales in the period of the upcoming Ramadan and the Sallah festival that follows. To ease the hardship and losses suffered, the President gave assurances that the government would do all that is possible to assist them. The President said he was interested in working with them to avert a recurrence of such tragic incidents. The Attorney-General was accompanied by Rauf Aregbesola, Maigari Dingyadi, Hadi Sirika, Sadiya Umar Faruk. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu also accompanied the Ministers. Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, had earlier described the fire which engulfed the state central market as a monumental tragedy unprecedented in the history of the state. Hundreds of shops and property worth billions of Naira were completely razed by the fire, that was reported by DAILY POST on Monday. DAILY POST also reported a similar incident in Zamfara State where the Tudun Wada Market in Gusau, the state capital was consumed by fire resulting to loss of many shops and valuable business facilities.