The National President of Southern Kaduna People’s Union, SOKAPU, Mr. Jonathan Asake, has called on governments and other spirited individuals to take decisive steps towards arresting the plight of the lnternally Displaced Persons, IDPs, across the country. Speaking at the inauguration of the first phase of the Southern Kaduna Resilience Fund, SKARF Project and Musical Concert Organized by House of Justice in Kaduna, Mr. Asake expressed dismay over the challenges IPDs were passing through in different parts of the country. He noted that insecurity had left many Nigerians helpless in the IDPs camps across the country and appealed that the government should step up security and welfare in the country. Mr. Asake commended the House of Justice and other organizations for their efforts in providing support to addressing the needs of those at the IDPs camps, especially in the areas of education, housing, food, among others. Responding, the Chief Executive Officer, House of Justice Kaduna. Barr. Gloria Ballason, said the commissioned projects at the Gonin Gora IDPS camp which included a school and Vocational Training Centre was part of her Corporate Social Responsibilities for IDPs in Southern Kaduna. Gloria explained that the programme which was majorly the inauguration of the SKARF Projects and Concerts was to strengthen their capacity, with a view to restoring dignity and hope to enable them stand tall amidst future challenges. She explained that as a corporate organization, it was their duty to stand with the IDPs in time of need to enable the women and children who have been pulled out of their original homes have access to vocation and education for sustainable development of the country. She added, “The essence of this is that there is so much pain going on right now in our country, and we as an organization feel that our work in the court will make little meaning if we loose our connection to humanity outside the courtroom. “We cannot shut our eyes to the suffering of people and we believe that as a corporate organization, we owe it a responsibility to extend hope to the hopeless.” She called on other corporate organizations to help provide succour to the IDPs across the country, adding that businesses were essentially about people and not just profitable ventures. The event with the theme ” The Stump Will Bud Again” featured special prayers and worship service, and IDPs singing competition, among others.