Some ethnic groups in Adamawa State have joined the thickening dust raised last month when Senator Binos Yaroe of Adamawa North District mentioned Fulani herders as being mostly responsible for kidnapping around the country. Individuals and groups have been reacting to Sen Yaroe, with some of the critics, notably a Fulani group, Tabital Pulaaku International (TPI) openly condemning his position via a press statement released last week. Conversely, in their joint statement on Tuesday, associations claiming to speak for 13 ethnic groups in Adamawa State, took the TPI on, asserting that Senator Yaroe only restated a known truth and that rather than condemning him, the TPI should call its dubious members to order. The Coalition of Indigenous Ethnic Nationalities of Adamawa State said in its joint statement, “As things stand now, it is common knowledge that the Fulani are the kidnappers. Some of those apprehended for the crimes have said that they are the ones doing these things. And, yes, they said that their bigger kindred have been facilitating these acts. It is all over the media. Therefore, the Distinguished Senator did not start this.” The coaltion, which consists development associations representing Chamba, Bwaatiye, Lunguda, Mbula, Kilba, Fali, Margi, Verre, among other ethnic nationalities, said increase in the nation’s insecurity occasioned a national discourse that included the need to define the threat and determine who is killing Nigerians. According to the coalition, such frank national discourse has been difficult because of fault lines such as ethnicity and religion.
“These fault lines have barred any rational and reasonable discussions. The Senate is the most appropriate place for such a discussion where superior arguments are the ammo used to win the good welfare for the people being represented. “For the Distinguished Senator to draw inferences from public discussions, including eminent persons in the society, and to focus on the threat to Nigeria, is his duty,” the coalition said.
It added that the attempt to isolate and attack the person of Senator Yaroe is a distraction from the real issues.
It said the members of Tabital Pulaaku International should be ashamed of themselves for defending their tribal people “who have turned banditry, kidnapping and terrorism into a major industry,” and that “They should concentrate on getting their people to stop these acts and thereby restore the dignity of their tribe which is now suffering disrepute.”