Oyo State Government on Sunday said that it recorded no fewer than 692 cases of gender-based violence in eleven months. The State Rapid Response Team on Gender-based violence made this disclosure on Sunday in Ibadan, the State capital. The team noted that it recorded the figure between March 2020 and February, 2021. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Marcus Williams, while speaking said there is a need to quickly respond to the plight of the girl-child and women whom he described as the most vulnerable to gender based violence in the society. He explained that most of the cases reported happened in the rural communities. He added that there is the need by the government to collaborate with community leaders and sensitize them on the role to play in reducing the shameful acts and ensure that parents play active roles in giving their children both formal and informal education. Williams while speaking further explained that the Rapid Response Team did not only rescue the survivors, but also supported them and handled each case to positive conclusions. He said, “All the cases reported were swiftly responded to with provision of psychosocial support, healthcare, alternative shelter, educational, nutrition and legal support as the case may be, and all these were made possible by the Oyo State government. “The society has to rise up and take up responsibility, parents should see this as a clarion call for them to take good care of their kids in the areas of moral upbringing and basic education that will give the children direction in life. “Government cannot do it all, in fact, the State has done so much to eradicate this canker worm and other stakeholders should also do their bid so that we will see the end of the problem of gender-based violence.” Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Alhaja Faosat Sanni who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mrs Christiana Abioye, appreciated the Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration for the support given to the team to perform optimally and also recognized the efforts of the team, its dedication to duty and selfless service to humanity by tackling cases of gender-based violence swiftly. She charged the team not to relent and be more holistic and diligent in handling all cases reported, while not hesitating to apply the necessary enabling laws in discharging their duties. “We have laws on ground against perpetrators and we will ensure that necessary actions and punishments are meted out to them.”