The Niger State House of Assembly has called on the state government to as a matter of urgency construct perimeter fences around boarding schools in the state. The call follows a motion raised by Hon. Abdulahi Shana Gbara, calling for fences around the Niger State College of Agriculture and Government Secondary School Bokani in Mokwa Local Government. He explained that the motion became necessary due to the recent kidnap of students of the Government Science College Kagara by bandits within the school premises that is not fenced. Gbara said the College of Agriculture, Mokwa experienced certain security breaches that involved a male teacher being accosted on his way back to the staff quarters. He reported another security breach that involved a suspected bandit-informant who relocated his herd of cattle through encroachment on the college’s land behind the staff quarters, while the secondary school located at the outskirts of the town is without a fence. The lawmakers who took turns to support the motion,.noted the need for the state to construct perimeter fences not only in Mokwa council but in schools across the 26 council areas of the state. They claimed that recent development in the state has shown that schools are vulnerable to security challenges and without further delay, should be fenced. “The bandits easily kidnapped the schoolboys in Kagara because of lack of fencing, the challenges facing schools in the state are multi-dimensional,” Shuaibu Liman representing Suleja constituency said. Hon. Malik Bosso, representing Bosso Constituency, said though, constructing fences would not prevent the bandits but securing the schools is very important. Speaking on the deplorable state of schools in the state, he said,” I never knew that there are schools like that in Niger state until I saw the Kagara school. We need to provide fences for the boarding schools.” The session presided by Hon. Ndagi Baba, representing Lavun constituency then referred the matter to the House Committee on Education to interface with the Ministry of Education to tackle the matter.