The Yewa North Patriotic Forum (YNPF) has called out the Ogun State Peace Keeping Committee on Farmers/Herders Conflict for saying the state has no refugees in Benin Republic. DAILY POST reported earlier that the chairman of the committee, Hon. Kayode Oladele, had denied that some indigenes of the troubled Yewa North and Imeko-Afon had turned refugees in Benin Republic. Oladele said those who fled Yewa for Benin Republic were Eguns and Hohoris, saying they only returned to their home country during the conflict. But, in a swift reaction, the Yewa North Patriotic Forum condemned the committee chairman for being economical with the truth. The group emphasised that many farmers in Yewa North had fled their homes for Benin Republic, while also shunning the palliative of noodles and rice sent to them by Governor Dapo Abiodun. Speaking with DAILY POST on Monday, the President of YNPF, Omobolaji Sanni, expressed disappointment that, “the government through their satanic servant said there is no crisis in Yewa land that will necessitate that our people become refugees in another country.” “The truth is that, many farmers in our axis have taken to their heels to take refuge in Benin Republic and they have also shunned the state government palliatives as their lives are more important to them than bags of rice and noodles. “The government through their representative, Oladele, had gone overboard and the gods of Yewaland shall fight them to a standstill. “Many times, we have noticed that many aides in this government are not true representatives, but agents of confusion to the Governor. At different times, they feed the Governor with lies and on this, we shall repel these bazzuker of lies. “Good for us as indigenes, we now know our enemies that live with us. “This committee didn’t go to these people, instead they chose to lie, If a reversal of this naked lie is not written, we shall register Oladele’s name in our black book as youths in Yewa North Local Government. “Being broke after serving in the House of Representatives is not a resalable excuse to hub-nub with the state Governor at the expense of your people,” the statement reads in part.