The Commissioner of Information in Abia State, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, has lauded the peaceful conduct of political actors in the just concluded Aba North and Aba South federal constituency by-election. The Commissioner pointed out that no life was lost before during and after the rerun election, describing Abia as a peace-loving state regardless of political differences. Okiyi Kalu who spoke on Monday, in a statement, appreciated the understanding of all parties on the need to maintain the existing peace entrenched in the state by the Ikpeazu-led administration, adding that everyone is a winner. His statement, “no Life Lost in Aba during the Election. The greatest news coming out of the election is that we have counted and no one was missing among Abians on Saturday. For that, we thank God Almighty for his goodness and mercy. “Abia is the most peaceful state in Nigeria and regardless of political differences, we all understand the need to ensure that we don’t lose our people to any form of election violence. “Congrats to all the parties that participated in the election. We are all winners in equal measures”. DAILY POST had reported that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Chimaobi Ebisike defeated Mascot Uzor Kalu the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and younger brother of Sen Orji Uzor Kalu. Ebisike polled 10,322 votes while Kalu polled 3,674 votes as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Ebisike will now fill the vacancy caused by the death of Ossy Prestige, the constituency’s former representative who died in 2020. In a related development, a chieftain of the All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA and the Member representing Aba South constituency in Abia State House of Assembly, Hon Obinna Ichita, has thanked all the contestants, voters and the security and intelligence agents, for the peaceful conduct of the Aba North and Aba South federal constituency bye-election. In a press statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday, Ichita congratulated the winner and Member-elect, to represent Aba North and Aba South Federal constituency, Hon. Chimaobi Ebisike on his resounding victory in the concluded polls. He said the result of the election shows that less than 5 percent of the total registered voters participated in the exercise. ”I think, the reason for this level of political apathy is best reserved for a different discourse. “Now that the election has come and gone, I wish to remind our constituents and friends of our Federal constituency that the funeral arrangement of our great leader, Rt. Hon. Ossy Prestige is still as announced by the family. “Lastly, we are happy that no life was lost in the exercise, “the Abia APGA lawmaker added.