The Enugu State Security and Peace Committee (SPC) and the Enugu State Community Policing Committee (CPC) on Wednesday described the state governor, Rt. Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as a servant leader who has demonstrated capacity in entrenching peace and security in the state. The chairman of SPC, His Royal Majesty (HRM) Igwe Emmanuel Ugwu of Ibagwa Nike, who also doubles as the Coordinating chairman of CPC, made the assertion in a birthday message to mark the 57th anniversary of Governor Ugwuanyi. While sending his ‘57 happy cheers’ to the governor on behalf of the two security committees, Igwe Ugwu said that through Gov Ugwuanyi’s exceptional managerial skill and peaceful disposition, the issue of herders-farmers clashes were brought to minimum in the state. He similarly disclosed that Governor Ugwuanyi was the first governor in the zone, if not the entire country to inaugurate the Constabulary police in line with the federal government’s community policing programme. He said, “Your Excellency, your unflinching belief that security is the bedrock of peace and economic development has led to your untiring efforts at instituting structures to ensure the achievement of optimum safety and security in the state. “In this regard, you blazed the trail as the first Governor to inaugurate the Constabulary police and state community policing committee in line with the federal government’s community policing programme. Through the Security and Peace Committee, which is a wonderful initiative of His Excellency, the issue of herders-farmers crisis has been brought to barest minimum through timely mediations. Your rural development revolution programme has equally brought accelerated peace and social stability at the grassroots. “Your Excellency indeed, has been the number one peace maker in the state, whose disposition for harmonious coexistence of all residents of diverse religious, cultural and ethnic origins has stood Enugu State out as the most peaceful state in Nigeria.” While congratulating Governor Ugwuanyi, the royal father prayed that God would continue to grant the governor good health and wisdom to continue to pilot the affairs of the state. The Enugu State Security and Peace Committee comprises the 17 Local Government Chairmen in the State; representatives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN); the Muslim Community; Sarki Hausa Enugu, Alhaji Abubakar Yusuf Sambo; and Security Agencies, with His Royal Majesty (HRM) Igwe Emmanuel Ugwu of Ibagwa Nike as the Chairman.