The recent interview and revelation by Prince Harry’s wife, Meghan Markle accusing the royal family of racism have stirred comparisons with the marriage of Peter Okoye and his wife, Lola. Meghan in an interview with Oprah Winfrey accused the Royal family of racism. Her husband, Prince Harry who took her side, stepped down from royal responsibilities and relocated to the US. Some Nigerians have now likened Prince Harry’s situation to that of Peter Okoye who took sides with his wife against his brothers, during his split from Psquare. Recall the split between the defunct music group ‘Psquare’ was criticised on social media after Peter Okoye insisted he would not reunite with his brother. DAILY POST recalls that Peter chose his immediate family over his brothers’ leading to the split of the group. .https://dailypost.ng/2019/05/06/p-square-chose-wife-kids-brothers-mr-p/ However, following the Meghan, royal household debacle, many Nigerians on Twitter have begun to express their views concerning both events. Here are some comments curated by DAILY POST; @Letter_to_jack “ Peter Okoye was not celebrated this way for standing with his wife against his family. Why? I mean the story kinda looks similar in a way.” @Theafricangod “We should celebrate Peter Okoye for standing for his wife against his family. The only difference between Harry and Peter is that the former is royalty while the latter is not. Peter Okoye, na man you be.” @JoeyAkan “ Peter Okoye (Mr P) did more than Harry to protect his wife. Fought his family and left them. Quarrelled with his twin. Scattered Psquare, a legacy world-beating successful music group for his wife. But he was still villainized here by men and women. Is he not a Nigerian man? @Nikkimandy “ Nigeria they’d call Peter Okoye woman wrapper probably say his wife is using juju but prince Harry is d most supportive husband.” @Theebibbs “ Peter Okoye is a nobleman for sure. The sacrifice he made for his wife and family, I respect that.” @Uncle_Ajala “ When Peter Okoye ( P Square) stood with his wife against his family’s wish, moral lessons, praise and worship were not flying up and down, now that Prince Harry is standing with Meghan against the royal family, see praise and worship of Harry and dragging of Nigerian men up and down.” @TillyTillie “Watching Harry talked about how he decided to stand for his own family (Meghan and their kids), reminds me of Peter Okoye so much. It’s important to marry a man that’s not tied to his family’s apron or one that can’t stand up for his wife.”