Popular activist, Comrade Deji Adeyanju has sought to know if Ogun State has a governor. Adeyanju’s reason for such a rhetorical question on his Facebook page could not be understood as he provided no further explanation. DAILY POST reports that Prince Dapo Abiodun is the incumbent Governor of Ogun State, with Mrs Naimot Salako-Oyedele as the Deputy. The ‘poser’ by Adeyanju has generated over 300 mixed-reactions from his followers on the social media page. While some came out to defend the presence of a governor in Ogun, others gave remarks suggesting that the presence of Abiodun is not well felt in the Gateway State. Here are some comments: Alabi Benjamin: “They have diaspora governor. It’s as if the man didn’t prepare to rule, he was just fortunate.” Adebayo Israel: “I live in Ijebu-Ode, and with this your post, I’ll stop taking your post serious. I think you just post without getting facts. Ogun state governor, Dapo Abiodun is doing far better than that school boy you called governor in kogi. Not everyone likes noise naking.” Ekinne Olalekan: “Governor Dapo Abiodun MFR is doing perfectly! Yes we have a Governor who doesn’t run more than his pace. He keeps delivery on his promises silently and doesn’t go all around to commission LG projects like your PDP brother in Oyo state. Deji if you have nothing to talk about kindly keep shut.” Tajudeen Odejobi: “The worst governor so far In the history of Ogun State.” Ajayi Taiwo Tosin: “We don’t have o. We only have figure head governor, the worst in the history of Ogun State.” Tom Oneno: “Just a figure head. Ogun state has most of the deadliest roads in present Nigeria, so many abandoned projects. Terrible!” Olofin Oluwaseun: “Ogun governor is one million times better than Ikpeazu of Abia, but your hypocrisy won’t let you see or say it. He who pays the piper, dictates the tune.” Michael Agbebiyi: “God bless you for that question. The man is just there doing nothing, even the past governor is far better than him.” Uchenna Junior John: “Ogun state governor is better than my state’s Supreme Court governor.” Salami Emmanuel: “No, we have a councillor. Yeye man!” Olumide Gbenga: “Yes, but not responsible, because he is just chasing shadow, looking for more zombie to join his party.” Bamidele Segun Lawson: “You’re asking maybe the 3rd state with Highest IGR is having a Governor ? No, until he calls you for Brown Envelope.” Ben-Zion RS: “They have, but he is having early signs of pregnancy abi na symptoms. He is vomiting, spitting and craving for delicacies especially peppered snails. Radarada!” Adams Suleimon: “If you go for any interview, if they ask you who is the governor of Ogun state, tell them that Ogun state does not have a governor.” Deji Imoleayo Mawutin: “Some will ignorantly respond while some will do that mischievously. The fact that is obtainable is that the Ogun State Government as led by PDA is doing its best and will do more.” Samuel Dosunmu: “Can we know the reasons for your question before we can decide what answer to give you?” Emmanuel Ubene: “Deji, no be small tin o. In Nigeria, Ogun State is the worst. Pls come to places like Ado-Odo, Otta, Itele roads, Lafenwa, Ayetoro road and Lusada…” Adedayo Mudashiru: “The man is not doing anything because there is no presence of a governor in my area.” Ibukun Kolawole: “A big question. Let’s investigate. But the fact is that the man called Dapo is just fortunate to become a governor. Set awon diaspora governor ni won.” Othniel Joseph: “Ogun State doesn’t have a governor. The man that parades himself as a governor is a show-off wannabe.” Adetoun Adetayo: “He is our state captain, not governor.” Prince Bolarinwa: “Dapo Abiodun is really trying, stop being sentimental.” Adegbeye Adewale: “Is Adeyanju Deji a serious man? How could you ask if Ogun State has a Governor despite all the infrastructural development going on in the State? For your information, what the Ogun State Governor Prince Dr. Dapo Abiodun – MFR has done as a Governor within the two years in office, it will take your State 8years to achieve it.” Peters Adebayo: “The worst governor in the west.” Oyedotun Festus: “I swear I doubt it, with a lot of bad roads in Ogun state.” Ebere Nwaribe: “They are governed by proxy from Lagos.” Lanre-Sunday Ojo: “Chai… What a question! Omo, Dapo Abiodun needs to wake up o.” Balofin Segun: “Not at all. A baby governor allowing herders to chase away his people.” Oke Oyebiyi: “It is your Kogi state that doesn’t have a governor.” Gbenga Olukayode Phoenix: “Governor? I don’t think so, but we have Mr Dapo and a retired journalist who rule the state with local contractors that will later do roads that will get spoilt in 6 months. Ask Otunba Gbenga Daniel.” Richard Mac Aigbe: “I doubt. He’s still doing remittance to his task master.” Phemmy Ara: “All South West governor’s are there to help Tinubu’s ambition, except Oyo State governor. Don’t expect anything from them.” Chukwu Emeka: “Thank u for this question. Of a truth Ogun does not have governor.” Babangida Etwevah: “South West all have commissioners as Governors. Tinubu is the Governor-General of South West.” Oni Gabriel: “Social media governor” Rabiu Danladi: “Ogun State doesn’t have a Govr, what they have is a councillor.” Babatunde Ayinde: “I’m not from Ogun state, but with what I am seeing on ground, he is better than Kogi governor.” Ukule Terkaa: “Before, not now. He’s in Lagos enjoying life. He wants to enter BBNaija.” Ogbeni Odalonu: “The worst governor that state have ever produced. For the fact it benefits from Lagos in everything relating to economy, nothing to write about that state. Too many abandoned project. He isn’t doing anything at all. Just bearing the name of governor. Shame on him and his supporters.”