The Vice Chancellor of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, Professor Muhammad Ahmad Abdulazeez, has declared that the institution is responding to COVID-19 pandemic in line with the established protocols of the government. Prof Abdulazeez stated this on Friday at the Yelwa campus of the university at the combined matriculation of 7,158 students for the 2019/2020 and 2020 /2021 academic sessions. According to him, these were challenging times in view of the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world, adding that the pandemic was responsible for the delay in matriculating the 2019 intakes. He informed that the system had to be rebooted for any reasonable work to be done regarding admission and its attendant challenges. “The times are challenging; humanity is faced with new challenges. Covid-19 is real. Here in ATBU, we are responding to the pandemic in ways that are in line with the established protocols of the government. “We insist on face masks, washing of hands, use of hand sanitizers and social distancing. I implore you all to obey these protocols knowing that they are for our own good. “Non-compliance may deny you access to certain places and facilities on campus,” the VC said. He revealed that due to limited facilities, the university could not admit all applicants who applied to study one course or the other there, adding that in all 7,158 students were admitted for the 2019/2020 and 2020 /2021 academic sessions. While assuring the matriculants of their safety in the university, Abdulazeez warned against security laxity, saying that, “we are also mindful of your security. That Bauchi State is one of the most peaceful states in the country does not permit us to be lax on matters of security.” The VC then advised the new students to familiarize themselves with the rules and regulations of the university and urged them to pay attention to the orientation programme. He warned that ATBU has zero tolerance for cultism, examination misconduct, all forms of criminality as well as anti- social behaviours.