Popular Fashion Entrepreneur, Toyin Lawani has come under attack for her outfit to a movie premiere over the weekend. Toyin in her post shared on Instagram wore a racy Nun outfit but with a slit in the middle exposing her thighs. This did not go down well with some followers and Nigerians online who blasted her for mocking Christianity. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @Omini_Smoochey “Toyin Lawani as a fashionista, can go beyond borders with her line of business but she should also remember that there is a breaking point in whatever we do in this life. That was a cross in boundary because that was a slap on Christianity.” @Chrisogakwu “Toyin Lawani is a disgrace to womanhood let her go disrespect Muslim hijab the way she disrespected Christian reverend sisters and see if she won’t be stoned to death.” @Ehigeorge1 “What is Toyin Lawani trying to prove with this Catholic Nun outfit? Without mincing words, this is so disrespectful and demeaning. Madness everywhere.” @DejiAdefehinti “Toyin Lawani’s act is totally ridiculous, highly condemnable to Christian faith. Why using the sign of the cross to cover up her vagina? @Amamabem “One Thing I really admire about Islam is the fact that they’ll never allow anyone (Christian or Muslim) to disrespect their religion. Some Christians endorse blasphemy. Show of shame by Toyin Lawani. Total disrespect for the Church, Christianity and the cross.” @AustineJohnson “If you are a practising Christian, please unfollow Toyin Lawani in all her social media platforms for making a mockery of Christianity and its symbols.” @Izu_Chukwu “ Toyin Lawani don’t disrespect my religion in ur stupid life again! Can u do that with the hijab? Rubbish! @Davidola “This Toyin Lawani dress is so unnecessary.” @YetundeFolarin “If there is no outrage over this, then CAN is just a political tool.” @SammySpotreal “Why are people condemning Toyin Lawani for being creative with her outfit. Y’all can praise foreign celebrities for dressing sexy in Christian inspired dresses at the 2018 MET GALA, but y’all are here CONDEMNING Toyin Lawani. Y’all are a bunch of Hypocrites. 