The Oyo State Police command on Monday urged residents of the state to come to the command and make formal complaints against Isikilu Wakili. DAILY POST gathered that Wakili had earlier been arrested. He was accused of masterminding some kidnapping cases and similar attacks in Ibarapa geo-political zone of the state. DAILY POST gathered that the arrest of Wakili has attracted several reactions from members of the public. The state police command has, however, appealed to residents to come with proofs that can assist in further interrogation of the suspect. The command in a statement made available to DAILY POST in Ibadan through its Public Relations Officer, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi, added that the command is ready to partner members of the public. Fadeyi said, “The Oyo State Police Command would like to inform the general public that sequel to the arrest of Iskilu Wakili and two other persons and subsequent transfer to State Criminal Investigation Department, (CID), Iyaganku Ibadan, discreet investigation on the suspects has commenced. “Consequent upon this, seasoned detectives have since commenced investigating Wakili and his suspected accomplices. “The Command wishes to invite members of the public who have corroborating evidence against them to appear, this will go a long way in ensuring that water tight evidence is established for the purpose of diligent prosecution. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to refute the allegation of detaining complainants who reported any case against the Fulani herdsmen at the Police Station in Ibarapa axis and equally take money from them before granting them bail. “This assertion is unfounded and baseless. While assuring that diligent investigation and prosecution will be taken into consideration at all times, the Cp wishes to strongly discourage the propagation of unverified and misleading news, by persons or groups of persons as this is counterproductive to feats achieved by the police through diligence and dedication in the pursuit of justice. “The CP wishes to state that the Police command is more than ever willing to partner with members of the public in prompt response to complaints and intelligence gathered, hence, members of the public are enjoined not to relent in rendering prompt and accurate information void of any form of social coloration with the police as we collectively birth the peaceful Oyo State of our dreams.”