Fifty-six persons have reportedly contracted the strange poisonous drinks diseases which struck Gwangwan village in Rogo local government area of Kano State. Residents of the Gwangwan village are said to be living in apprehension as victims of the mysterious ailment vomit and urinate blood. A Councillor from the village, Muhammad Tukur, said six areas within the village were affected and about 56 persons have contracted the ailment since the outbreak. “Areas affected by the outbreak of the disease include Unguwan Rijiyan Dadi, Gwanwan Gabas, Gwangwan Yamma, Unguwar Tsarmai, Gangare, and Unguwar Kofar Fada. “We rushed no fewer than 30 people to the Rogo General Hospital within a day of the outbreak. “So far only one person has died as a result of the outbreak. Most of the victims of the disease have complained of spending a lot of money on the disease” he explained. One Shehu Adamu whose two kids have been affected complained that he has so far spent over twenty thousand naira in the hospital trying to get them treated despite the hard times they are facing financially. Another victim, in whose house eight people were affected, Idris Isah Jibrin, said he is completely devastated. He said some of his affected family members, including wife, mother and children cannot stand on their feet as a result of the severity of the disease. He complained that he has so far spent N100,000 between Rogo Hospital and Gwarzo Hospital without any fruitful result. A staff of the village clinic, Abubakar Rabiu said the disease is beyond what the clinic can handle, which is why the victims are revered to Rogo Hospital. However, the officials of the Rogo Hospital who insisted on anonymity said they were not aware of any disease outbreak. Sulaiman Ilyasu, the personnel in charge of disease outbreaks at the Ministry of Health in Kano said the ministry received a report of the outbreak but only four persons were affected and have since been treated. Gwangwan village is 136 kilometres from Kano city and is in Rogo local government area of Kano State.