The Northern Elders for Peace and Development, NEPD, has strongly condemned the deteriorating security challenges in Northern Nigeria, warning that urgent steps be taken to immediately arrest the situation. The elders alleged that the killings and abduction since the beginning of the year in the region is becoming unbearable and downplayed. The elders’ National Coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni, in a statement observed that those entrusted with maintaining security allegedly not giving President Muhammadu Buhari the necessary briefings and true situation of security development in the region. The elders suggested to the President that no ransom be paid to abductors or negotiation be engaged with bandits again, warning against amnesty for terrorists. They believed that ransom and negotiation were fueling abductions and other nefarious activities of bandits and terrorists in the country. According to the elders, “We write to decry the rising state of insecurity in the North East in particular and Northern Nigeria at large and the deliberate attempts by some very highly-placed government officials to use some unpatriotic online media to be down playing the true situation on ground. This is unpatriotic and unacceptable to us.” They drew the attention of those they called unpatriotic elements that engage in this unwholesome act and at the same time expecting different results is impossible. The elders assured that they would never be silent in the face of the worsening insecurity in Northern Nigeria, observing that farmers were not going to their farms again besides the inability of residents to sleep with their eyes closed in the past. The elders emphasized, “As a people trusted with security by Mr President, they should be patriotic to tell him the true situation of security in the North East in particular and Northern Nigeria as a whole at all times, rather than desperately trying to cover up the situation to the detriment of human lives and property.” They lamented that many people are being killed on a daily basis in the region just as tens of soldiers are being killed unreported especially in the North East. They noted that it is disheartening to see their old parents who should resting in their old age running helter skelter everyday for safety while some people sit in the comfort of their air conditioned cars and offices making money from our misfortune, adding that it is highly unacceptable and would not be silent in calling a spade a spade. The elders alleged that some online media were being used by public officers to give false reports of the situation thereby denying the public from knowing the true security situation. The northern elders appealed to all the Northern governors to adopt Mr. President’s position on no negotiation and amnesty for the bandits. They advised (governors) to use the money for the supposed amnesty programme, ransom and negotiations to acquire state-of-the art technology with a view to ending insecurity on our land once and for all.