Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Igbo leaders have warned the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the move to dump the party’s zoning arrangement, saying the plan would not yield any positive result for the party. Stakeholders in the region on Friday expressed disappointment over the party’s decision. 2. Two persons said to be members of staff of the Nigeria Correctional Services, NCS, attached to Ekwulobia Prisons in Anambra State were reportedly killed by unknown gunmen in the state on Friday. The men were alleged to have been attacked and killed while escorting a van conveying inmates of the prison to the court for hearing at about 11 am on Friday. 3. National President of Indigenous Igbo Youth, Chief John Echefu, yesterday, dismissed the Biafra De facto Customary Government recently announced by Alhaji Mujahid Dokubo Asari, saying the ex-Niger Delta militant was merely seeking public attention. 4. Imo State Government yesterday threatened to arrest any protesting teacher, worker or pensioner in the state over salary arrears, insisting that his government is owing no one. In a statement, the government accused the protesters of misinforming the public. 5. The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, ASUP, has threatened to embark on a strike from April 6. In a communiqué issued at the end of its 99th National Executive Council meeting on Friday, ASUP stated that the proposed strike was to resolve pending issues. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, congratulated the new Tanzanian President, Samia Suluhu Hassan. Haasan, the former VP, was sworn in on Friday following the death of President John Magufuli. 7. A former lawmaker who represented Kogi West in the 8th Senate has described the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as a Non-Governmental Organisiation (NGO), saying Nigerians are fed up with the current administration. Dino made the assertion on Friday. 8. The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, has reaffirmed confidence in the FG’s decision to continue the vaccination of Nigerians with the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, noting that it remains the only tool to get out of the pandemic. 9. Former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen on Friday opened up for the first time on why he was unceremoniously removed from office in 2019 by the Federal Government. Onnoghen, who spoke in Abuja, said his sudden removal was politically motivated as it was based on his alleged meeting with former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar in Dubai. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 130 new COVID-19 cases in 13 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded cases in the country so far to 161,539.