The Chancellor and founder of Gregory University Uturu, Prof. Gregory Ibe has saluted the tireless efforts of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in growing Small and Medium Scale Entreprise (SME) in the State. Professor Ibe made his feelings known during an interview with newsmen in his hometown, Uturu, Isuikwuato Local Government Area. “The Governor dresses almost all the time in Made in Aba, so, he is also an ambassador of Made in Aba, whether he is in government or outside the government. The history of Abia State in terms of Made in Aba will not be written without his name. “We have checked it, we believe that these successes will have a manifold gain to our State that is more of entrepreneurial in nature,” he noted. He said Governor Ikpeazu’s ingenuity in attracting investors to the State led to the ranking of Abia by National Bureau of Statistics as the third best in foreign direct investment in 2020. Ibe said “the performance of our Governor, bearing in mind the available of money in his kitty to handle the State is commendable”, adding that
when fully completed, the Port-Harcourt road would fully open up Aba. Ibe, a Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, stalwart assured that “we are ready to keep supporting the Governor to make sure that our party becomes number one and maintain the number one lead”. The Chancellor of Gregory University, who also is a Consultant of ECOWAS Commission for 15 countries, emphasized the need for Abians to come back home and invest, revealing that he invested in his hometown and State to contribute to the development of Abia State. According to him, “if God has made you an Abian, the best thing to do is to do something for Abia so that God will keep blessing you. I have chosen to do my things for Abia and I know that what I am doing, God is also blessing me”. He disclosed that his university Gregory University had employed more that 1000 staff, majority of whom are from Abia State While appreciating Governor Ikpeazu for his efforts in bringing Enyimba Economic City and his infrastructural developmental strides in Aba, Ibe called on the citizenry to stop messing up the drainage systems in all the roads built. He added that citizens should be warned through advocacy to maintain and protect what the Governor had initiated in the State.