The Police in Anambra State has declared an Anambra State government official, Mrs Sabina Izuora wanted, over alleged involvement in child trafficking. Mrs Izuora was alleged to have sold three children, who were recently rescued from a home in Onitsha, where a woman and her mother who operate a ministry was said to have locked them up, waiting to pound them in a mortar for ritual purposes. The state police command’s spokesperson, CSP Haruna Mohammed who disclosed this during the parade of suspects said, “The Anambra State Police Command has declared Mrs Sabina Izuora wanted in connection with alleged cases of child trafficking, stealing, forgery and perjury. “The Command enjoins Ndi Anambra and the general public to apprehend or report at the nearest police station or call police emergency numbers whenever they see her. Mrs Sabina Izuorah ‘f’ was formerly a staff of Social welfare Dept Awka South LGA but recently transferred to Social Welfare Department Ihiala LGA. Meanwhile, the state police command has paraded Rejoice Raymond, ‘f’, aged 39 years and Mrs Chidi Felicia Nwafor, said to be her mother, over the illegal detention and torture of two boys and a girl in 3-3 area of Onitsha. The children were, however, rescued on the 19th of February, following privileged information, shared with the police command by good spirited individuals. CSP Harun Mohammed, the spokesperson of the command who paraded the suspects said, “Suspects allegedly confined three children (2 boys and a girl) inside different rooms at No.13 Akunwanta Mbamalu Street, Federal Housing Estate, Onitsha, and subjected them to physical and emotional torture without food and inflicted several wounds on their bodies, leaving them unconscious and at the point of death. “The victims who were badly battered with lacerations all over their bodies, one with a broken arm, were found in the pool of their blood, rescued and rushed to the hospital for medical attention. Exhibits recovered at the scene included some fetish substances, blood-stained canes, concoctions and other incriminating items.” Mohammed said, “Preliminary investigations revealed that the three children were allegedly sold to the suspects by a notorious child trafficking kingpin named Sabina Izoura ‘f’ who has been on the police wanted list for child trafficking, child stealing and forgery. “Further investigations also revealed that the suspect was involved in unlawful adoptions, using forged police reports, forged authorisation letters from the Ministry of Women’s Affairs and sworn court affidavits, to sell children stolen from all parts of the country to her waiting customers, both within and outside Nigeria; including a recent attempt to smuggle out two children (a boy and a girl) allegedly stolen from Niger State since 2018.” He said all the children recovered by the police are presently under the protective care of the Anambra State Ministry for Social Welfare, Women’s and Children’s Affairs, pending when their biological parents will surface.