The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has called for the immediate dismissal, arrest and prosecution of the Chairman code of Conduct tribunal Danladi Umar over what it described as a disgraceful conduct he (Umar)displayed at Banex Plaza Wuse 2 Abuja yesterday. Recall that Danladi Umar was caught on camera beating up mercilessly a security guard who was only doing his job by telling him not to park on a reserved parking space. HURIWA said that Umar’s misconduct has shown that he lacks the comportment, decorum, decency and discipline that are required for such a high office of the law. “We hereby call on the Secretary to the Government of the Federation – Boss Mustapha to sack Danladi Umar without wasting any time except if this government is reckless, rascally, unruly and lawless, then the unruly character that embodies the soul of the government can continue to be there in the office. “We urge the members of the Civil Rights Advocacy Community in Nigeria to provide pro-bono legal services for this citizen that was beaten blue and black by a man who ought not behave like a wrestling thug,” HURIWA said. The human rights organisation further condemned a press statement by Umar in which he called those who witnessed the scene of his public show as Biafran boys. HURIWA said that this particular statement has shown that Umar is a bigot “or that he knows something most Nigerians do not know- that is, that he may have as well passed another night time experts order creating his imaginary BIAFRAN REPUBLIC for him to know the citizens of his UTOPIAN CREATION.” This group, hence, demanded the immediate arrest and prosecution of Umar on ground of treason for him to have “pronounced the Nigerian citizens Biafran boys because he may have been procured to issue an illegal exparte order creating Biafra Republic because he has the habit of recklessness of issuing frivolous orders from his chambers. ” Umar had in his statement denied assaulting a security guard at a plaza in Abuja. DAILY POST reported that the CCT Chairman in a viral video on Tuesday assaulted the guard. However, in a statement signed by Head, Press & Public Relations, CCT, Abuja, Ibraheem Al-Hassan, the Chairman narrating the incident, said the altercation happened because of a parking space. According to him, the guard was rude to him and threatened him which triggered the situation.