It appears that the last has not been heard of the interim forfeiture order obtained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in respect of the properties allegedly traced to one Brigadier General Jafaru Mohammed. It may be recalled that for days, the public was greeted with screaming headlines seeking to force a connection between Jaafaru and property holdings of individuals within his social circle. On the allegations in the proceedings, Jafaru has not been formally charged before any court, neither has he been convicted of any offence. Sadly, it seems there is attempt against the officer’s image. The current information failed to inform the public the real owners of the alleged eight ‘choice’ properties listed against Jaafaru. It has been discovered that only one, a house in Wamba District, built many years before his present appointment belongs to him. In securing the order, the prosecutors failed to inform the court of the cost and ownership of the properties. It appears the EFCC struggling to prove the ‘choice’ properties – a plot of land at Kubwa, another plot at Katampe extension and a rented apartment in Sun City. There are also claims of so-called ‘many filling stations’ without address of the locations. Similarly, there are mention of ‘many bank accounts’ that their balances in the account were not disclosed, despite being dormant. If indeed the subject of the allegation is running many filling stations while being a public servant, why are these filling station not listed and what are the balances in the so-called ‘many accounts’? The EFCC must prove its case. Till date, the agency is yet to comply with the order of the court directing the publication of the Interim Order of Forfeiture since March 9, 2021 in one national newspaper. Nigerians should not be fed with piecemeal information about the order. The embattled military officer is but a pawn in a bigger and complex game of chess. Brigadier-General Jafaru Mohammed is no more than a victim of power play. There is a need for the EFCC and other agencies of government to respect court injunctions, rather than embarking on campaigns. Probe and prosecution should not be made to look like political vendetta. Armiyau Isah, a social commentator, writes from Kubwa, Abuja.
yau_isah@gmail.com