Farm4Me Agriculture Limited, has defeated competitors across the West African sub-region to emerge the West Africa’s Best World Class Digital Agricultural Investment Platform Brand of the Year 2021 at the just-concluded 10th West Africa Brand Excellence Award in Lagos.  The Institute of Brand Management (IBMN) through the West Africa Brands Excellence Awards said Farm4Me emerged winner of the category at the 2021 edition of the annual awards following the verdict of a technical team. It noted that Farm4Me had within the last 12 months used its platform to help boost innovation for a more sustainable agricultural sector in the midst of the global pandemic. Founded in 2017 by a young agroprenuer, Adama J Adama, Farm4Me is designed to help provide farmers with a marketplace, ensuring farmers get profits and are also able to get inputs supplied.  Mr. Esinniobiwa Quareeb, the Chief Technology Officer of Farm4Me, who received the award on the behalf of the MD/CEO, Adama J Adama, said, “we are honoured to have our hard work aimed at impacting on the lives of rural farmers recognised. We are happy about the great opportunities ahead of us as we continually strive to remain at the forefront of technological innovation in Agriculture across Nigeria and eventually the continent of Africa.” Adama J Adama, founder of the company in response to the award, said the honour will motivate the company to work harder.  He said; “We are happy to know that what we are doing caught the attention of the organization that gave the award. We are grateful for the honor. “But for me, it is too early for us to start blowing our trumpet. “Our goal is to ensure that our Investors get their dividends as and when due, empower smallholder farmers and contribute to food security for the next 10 years. Satisfaction of our Clientele is our ultimate goal. “This award has motivated us to work harder and deliver more values. We are in this for the long term.  “I dedicate this award to the entire team for their hard work and dedication to achieving our goals. You guys made it happen. “To our Investors, we urge you to join us in this journey to create wealth, empower farmers and build the Nigerian Agricultural Sector. With hard work, we can,” he added.