A Bauchi-based youths group, Bauchi Youth Democratic Assembly (BYDA), has urged the state governor, Bala Mohammed to prevail on the state Ministry of Finance to release the money he approved for a National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) member to complete maternity facility at Sabon Kaura community as her community development project. BYDA secretary, Mr David Daure, stated this in a statement he signed and made available to journalists on Friday in Bauchi.  He said the corps member, Mrs Ugochukwu Glory, with NYSC number, BA/19B/3811, had sought financial assistance from the governor through the Ministry of Works and Transport to complete her community development project at the community, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis. Daure informed that the maternity project had reached the roofing stage, adding that the corps member was constructing the maternity centre with the support of the Ministry Works and Transport and Habib Engineering Construction Company. “She sought assistance from Governor Bala Mohammed to complete the construction of the maternity which would earn her an award. “The governor in his magnanimity approved the sum of N5,290,377.50 for her to complete the construction of the maternity in Sabon Kaura community,” he stated Daure informed that the governor approved the said amount and directed the Ministry of Finance to pay the corps member through the Ministry of Works and Transport. According to him, despite the governor’s approval, the money was yet to be released to the Corps member to enable her complete the maternity project. “The governor directed the state Ministry of Finance to release the sum of N5.290,377:50 to the Ministry of Works and Transport for onward transmission to the youth corps member under the supervision of the ministry by direct labour. “We are, therefore, appealing to the governor to wade into the matter for the authorities concerned to release the money for her to complete the construction of the maternity which is very important to the community,” he added. Daure, however, lamented the refusal of civil servants to comply with the state government after he had given the directive for the money to be paid. “We are calling on the good Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed to have a critical look at the issue and direct the release of the money to enable the corper complete her project,” Daure appealed.