Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has commissioned the first-ever Computerized Vehicle Inspection Center in Abia State with a charge to the operators to make the facility an enabler that would support growth of transport business in the state. Commissioning the facility in Aba, Governor Ikpeazu said the transport business should not be an obstacle to the economic development of the State The Governor stated that a good transport system enhances trade and commerce, economic development and investment, and charged transporters to be good ambassadors of the State. He noted that the facility has placed Abia State on the map of modern economic development.  Governor Ikpeazu said the project is an attempt to correct past anomalies pointing out that the state has joined the league of states and cities that have international standards in vehicle inspection. The State Chief Executive encouraged all transporters to find time to ensure that their vehicles are road worthy by making use of the facility. He urged the Police and other security agencies to support the operation of the facility and the Ministry of Transport to mount advocacy campaigns on the need for drivers to patronize the facility. Speaking, the Permanent Secretary, Abia State Ministry of Transport, Mrs. Ijeoma Okere thanked the Governor for the project which she described as world class as well as constructing many roads in Aba and urged Abians to make use of the facility.  Okere informed that the facility would boost the economy of the State and improve the IGR of the State. Earlier, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Abia State Computerized Vehicle Inspection Center, Aba, Prince Segun Obayendo said that with the facility, Abia State has joined the league of States who have a shared commitment to reduce carnages on the roads to the barest minimum by the introduction of the computerized vehicle inspection service. “The facility will also operate the Drivers Testing Theory (DTT) to ensure that only certified drivers issued with drivers’ license by the Federal Road Safety Commission. “The facility is a 2 lane Test Center – Universal Test Lane and Light Goods Vehicle Lane with a capacity to inspect 150 vehicles daily within official working hours. “The Center has the capacity to inspect trucks, tankers and trailers. He assured that the center in Aba is the first in the State with another one in Umuahia nearing completion. “In line with the mandate of the Governor, the Center will also provide free diagnostic scans for vehicles as part of the inspection services to be provided for the people”.  He appreciated the Governor’s commitment to safety, saying that he has taken the bull by the horn and addressed one of the three major causes of accidents on the roads, which is accident caused by defective vehicles and in compliance to the United Nations Module for Vehicle Inspection and Road worthiness Issuance. With the commissioning of the facility, road worthiness certificate of vehicles would now be issued solely by the Computerized Vehicle Inspection Center thus removing the activities of touts who divert government revenue. Governor Ikpeazu after the commissioning was later conducted round the facility. The Governor had earlier inspected a guard of honor mounted by officers of the Vehicle Inspection Center. DAILY POST reports that the State Police Commissioner, CP Janet Agbede, Executive Chairman of Aba South LGA, Hon Clinton Ebere, Traditional Rulers and leaders of the major Transport Unions in the State – NURTW, RTEAN, NARTO and Cooperative Motor Union were present at the event. 