The Abia State Government has raised the alarm on alleged presence of hoodlums brought into the state by an opposition party to cause mayhem during the forthcoming Saturday Aba North and South Federal Constituency by-election. A statement signed and made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday by the state’s Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, alleged that an opposition party brought some hoodlums from other states and camped them in some strategic areas ahead of the Saturday election in Aba. The Commissioner stated that about 200 armed youths were camped at a location pending deployment on Saturday. He said the opposition had concluded plans to forcefully manipulate the election using the hoodlums with fake military uniforms. The state government, however, called on security agencies in the state and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to ensure that the hoodlums were apprehended. “Our intelligence confirms that the opposition party plans to overheat the polity as a prelude to calling for full deployment of the military which will, in turn, create room for them to deploy the hoodlums with fake uniforms and the already procured arms. “We wish to make it abundantly clear to those behind the dastardly plot that their plans are fully known and will surely not only be resisted but also completely thwarted. “We advise the police and military high command as well as the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) and the Department of State Services (DSS) to be wary of the antics of desperate politicians seeking for expansion of family enterprise even at the expense of precious lives of citizens rather than growth and unity of our nation”, the Commissioner added. The Commissioner who urged residents to remain calm and vigilant, told citizens not to be intimidated by the alleged plans of the opposition party. He also advised politicians to desist from acts capable of compounding the security situation in the country and distracting the FG in its efforts at containing the trend. Recall that following the death of Hon. Ossy Prestige who was representing the constituency at the House of Representatives, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, fixed March 27 for the by-election.