Okechukwu Isiguzoro, the Secretary General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has slammed Doyin Okupe, a former aide to ex-Presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan over his recent comments. Okupe had in a series of tweets on Saturday, claimed that the North are yet to forgive the Igbo over the incident of 1966 of which one of the high points was the killing of Sardauna of Sokoto. “A national consensus for Igbo Presidency cannot evolve until the core north forgives the Igbos for the killing of Sardauna of Sokoto by nigerian soldiers of igbo extraction in the 1966 Coup”. But, reacting to Okupe’s outburst in a statement on Sunday, Isiguzoro cautioned the former presidential Aide against incitive comments. He said that Ndigbo had forgiven the north over its role during the Nigeria/Biafra war, which led to the massacre of over two million Igbos. Isiguzoro emphasized that the Igbo nation will continue to maintain the traditional alliance with northerners and warned Okupe to stop fanning embers of discord in his bid to achieve inordinate ambition of vying the nation’s presidential seat. The Ohanaeze chieftain reminded Doyin Okupe that there was a national consensus on Nigeria presidential seat to rotate between the North and south geopolitical zones, insisting that the Igbo nation should be allowed and supported to take its shot come 2023. He further stated that the South East and indeed the entire Igbo nation had demonstrated its belief in one Nigeria by firmly supporting the north to be at helms of power hence the need for northerners to rally round Ndigbo to produce the next Nigeria President in 2023. Isiguzoro told Okupe that Igbos are not at war with any section of the country, urging the citizenry to ignore the latter’s divisive ranting as his plan in thwarting Nigeria President of Igbo bloc will hit the rock. According to the Secretary General, “Igbos have forgiven the north and North has forgiven Igbos. Okupe saying Igbos played a role in killing of Sardauna of Sokoto is being mischievous. Also, there was national consensus that power should rotate between the northern and Southern Nigeria. Okupe should not whip up unnecessary sentiment. “It is not in the best interest of equity, Justice and fairness by this comment made by Doyin Okupe. We are also aware of his publicly declared presidential ambition. He is an enemy of one united Nigeria that should extinct from the nation’s democratic system.”