The recently impeached Deputy Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Oludare Kadiri, has accused the Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo, of being the mastermind of his removal. Kadiri, while addressing newsmen after his impeachment, said he had not been talking with the Speaker for the past four months. According to him, he was being accused of misconduct because he signed a sum of about N16,200 for the repair of his vehicle, which he said was down for one week. He also alleged that the Ogun Assembly under Oluomo, is being run like a cult, saying no one could ask for financial report of the legislative house. Asked if he believes there was somebody behind his removal from office as Deputy Speaker, he said, “Of course, the Speaker. I have not been speaking to him. We don’t talk for about four months, because the Ogun State Assembly is not supposed to be a cult where you cannot ask for financial information of the house. How can I, at this level of mine, be in a place and I don’t know the financial report of the house? That’s what caused all this mess,” he said. On the allegations against him, he reacted by saying, “The first allegation, I think is misconduct. I don’t think it’s going to be a misconduct for a Deputy Speaker to sign sixteen thousand, two hundred and something Naira to repair my vehicle which has been down for one week. I don’t think that’s too (much); that’s a petty cash. But I don’t want to say more about that. “The other allegations of insubordination and misconduct. They said gross misconduct and it gets to me like, probably you’ve been doing that for so long and you have a lot of cases of misconduct. You are pressmen, I don’t think I’ve been in the news for the past six years I’ve been an honourable member. All this, we will prove it when we get to court,” he stated. DAILY POST reports that Kadiri was impeached Thursday for alleged gross misconduct. But, Kadiri described his removal as illegal, threatening to involve his lawyer. While confirming that he has received the news of what he termed my purported impeachment, he said he said initiated consultation with his lawyer to address the “infraction”. He urged his supporters to remain calm, promising to remain committed to the tenets of good governance. Video:  