The Kaduna State Government, on Sunday, said suspected armed bandits have killed one in Chikun local government area, just as troops rescued a kidnapped boy in Kachia local government area of the State This was confirmed in a statement on Sunday, issued by Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs. He said, “security agencies have reported that a 30-year-old herder, Yakubu Aruwa was killed while grazing his cattle between Gora and Ungwan Pa area Zangon Kataf LGA of Kaduna State. “The victim was grazing with another herder, one Muhammadu Sani, who escaped the assailants, while Yakubu Aruwa was overpowered.” The commissioner further explained that, “the carcasses of three cows were recovered, with another three reported missing. “In another incident, armed bandits opened fire on motorists in Udawa, Chikun LGA and killed a driver, Danladi Maisamari. “Furthermore, troops of Operation Thunder Strike rescued an abducted boy, 15-year old Doti Haruna, one of four boys abducted by bandits from Katambi, Kachia LGA. He was rescued by the troops during a patrol to Alewa village in the same LGA. “The rescued boy revealed that another boy, Abdullahi Babale, was released. Both boys have however been reunited with their families.” “Further reports from security agencies and community leaders in Kizachi village, Kauru local government area have revealed two additional casualties from the attack reported on Friday. “The two casualties are identified as Kururuwa Ali and Aweki Ibrahim Achinge. “This now places the total casualty figure from the attack at 12 persons, as against the 10 indicated in initial reports. “Also, a total of 74 houses have been confirmed razed, as against 56 initially reported. “Receiving the reports, Governor Nasir El-Rufai prayed for the repose of the victims’ souls, and commiserated with their families. He also wished the injured victims a quick recovery. “The Governor also condoled the family of Yakubu Aruwa and reiterated that reprisal is not a viable solution to any grievance. “The killing of the herder, according to security agencies is linked to an earlier killing of a farmer, one Irmiya Godwin, who was killed by last week after working in his farm in Gora Gan general area,” the statement added.