Michael Owen, a former Manchester United and Real Madrid forward, has predicted some of this midweek’s World Cup qualifiers. Belgium will host Wales at the King Power at Den Dreef Stadion on Wednesday night, while England will tackle San Marino at Wembley Stadium on Thursday night. Italy will host Northern Ireland Scotland at Ennio Tardini in Parma on Thursday night, while Scotland will face Austria. Providing his predictions, Owen told BetVictor: “We must go back to 2016 when these two last met. Belgium ended Wales’ epic Euro 2016 run with a 3-1 win in the quarter-finals. “Since then, Belgium has stayed in and around the summit of the world rankings, and I get the feeling that if they are to win a trophy, it will come in the next couple of years. “Romelu Lukaku has netted 40 goals in 38 appearances under Roberto Martinez, and if he’s in the mood, I think the striker could play a big part in a home win. Belgium 2, Wales 0.” Commenting on the Italy vs Northern Ireland game, Owen said, “Unbelievably, Italy have not lost a home match in the Euros/World Cup qualifying campaign since a 3-2 defeat to Denmark in a Euro 2000 qualifier in September 1999. “So, it’s fair to say this will be a tough task for the away side. They arrive here winless in each of their last ten matches in all competitions, drawing four and losing six. “For me, Italy looks solid, so I wouldn’t be surprised to see them come away with a comfortable win. Italy 2, Northern Ireland 0.” On the Scotland vs Austria match, Owen said, “With qualification to Euro 2020 secured at the end of last year, I’m sure there will still be a feel-good factor amongst the Scotland squad when they meet up ahead of this clash at Hampden. “However, since that memorable night, the Scots have lost back-to-back matches. They welcome an Austria side that seems to relish playing away from home. The Austrians won all four of their matches on their travels in 2020, so I expect them to come here and have a go. “I don’t think there is a huge amount between these two, and given both sides lack goals in recent matches, I am siding with a 1-1 draw in Glasgow. Scotland 1, Austria 1.” Speaking on the England vs San Marino clash, Owen said, “The visit of San Marino to Wembley gives Gareth Southgate the chance to rest a few players. The gulf between these two is there for everyone to see, which isn’t great if you’re a neutral. “That said, it’s the ideal opportunity to bring in fringe players to boost squad morale going into future matches. “I have no doubt that England will be professional, and if they play anywhere near their best, I think it could be a long night for the visitors. England 6, San Marino 0.” The kick-off time for all the matches is 8:45 pm.