The father of one of the abducted Jangebe school girls, who himself had been in captivity, has regained freedom. DAILY POST had reported that one of the victims abducted from Government Girls’ Secondary School, GGSS, Jangebe identified as Hafsatu Anka, revealed they saw women, children and father of one of their schoolmates who had been in the den for three months. The SS II student, who spoke in tears, narrated that they were laid in trenches littered with human feaces, adding that they were never allowed to pray and were fed sandy rice. Mallam Iliya Gwaram on Monday night narrated his experience to newsmen after he regained freedom from his abductors. Gwaram, who was brought to Government House, Gusau around 9 p.m. on Monday, said he told his daughter not to show any indication that she knew him. NAN reports that Gwaram was rescued along with nine other victims, including nursing mothers and three toddlers, driven in a heavily guarded motorcade. “I have been in captivity with these other people for more than three months; on that Friday morning, l saw the school girls being brought into where we were camped by our abductors. “At first, l didn’t know who they were or where they were coming from, until l saw the face of my scared daughter looking at me. “I quickly told some of the girls who were brought along with her and sat near me to tell my child not to show any indication that she even knew me. “The girls were brave enough and they kept our little secret up to the last day of their four days stay with us. “l never cried in the whole of my life like l cried the day the girls were taken back because l felt it was the last time l would see my daughter. “Fortunately and unknown to me, my daughter informed Gov. Matawalle of our whereabouts and the poor health conditions we were, which led to our freedom today as facilitated by the governor and his security people,” he said. Gwaram further revealed that his daughter would continue with her education. “If she wasn’t educated, she would have exposed me when she saw me and that would have put the two of us in danger. “I thank God for that and l will continue to pray that such a thing never happens to even my worst enemy,” Gwaram added.