A 29-year-old herbalist, Baoku Gbuyi, has confessed to the police that he, on behalf of a 27-year-old bricklayer, Olamide Odulaja, killed a woman, Modupeola Folorunsho, and her 4-year-old son, Peter Folorunsho, for money ritual. Police said the herbalist revealed that he had burnt the woman’s head with some other herbal materials, saying he gave it to the bricklayer, who contacted him for the ritual. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, informed DAILY POST that the two were arrested by detectives following a report received at Ijebu Igbo division, from the victim’s husband. Oyeyemi said the husband reported on February 14 that his wife and son went out the day before, but did not return; adding that efforts to locate them proved abortive. This, it was gathered, caused the DPO, Kazeem Solotan, to incident a case of missing persons, as he detailed his crack detectives to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disappearance of the missing persons. The technical and intelligence based investigation of the detectives, Oyeyemi said, led them to the arrest of the bricklayer, Olamide Odulaja, at Ibadan. “On interrogation, Olamide confessed that he and one herbalist abducted the victim and her son on the 13th of February 2021, and that the victim and her son were killed for money ritual at the house of the said herbalist. He stated further that it was the herbalist who burnt the woman’s head which he used for him,” the PPRO said. The bricklayer’s confession led detectives to the herbalist’s house at Araromi Street, Japara in Ijebu Igbo. But, he had fled. However, he was eventually trailed to Kajola village, where he was apprehended by the DPO of Awa Ijebu with the aid of hunters and local vigilantes. “On interrogation, the herbalist confessed that it was Olamide Odulaja, who approached him for money making ritual; following which he asked him to bring a head of human being as one of the materials to be used. “He stated further that they both conspired to abduct the woman and her son and slaughter them for that purpose. “He confessed further that he burnt the woman’s head with some other herb materials which he gave to Olamide to use. “When asked about the little boy, he said that his head and remains were dumped inside a pit latrine,” Oyeyemi explained. While commending his men for their display of investigative intelligence, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, ordered the immediate transfer of the matter to the State CIID for further investigation and diligent prosecution.