The National Coordinator, Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum, John Nnia Nwodo, has said restructuring was the easiest way to make Nigeria great again. Nwodo’s view was contained in a paper titled “Re-evaluation of African Values and Culture in the face of the crises of the 21 Century”, delivered at the 4th Chinua Achebe International Conference at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. On the herders/farmers crisis, he insisted there was no justification to allow cattle grazing which entails herdsmen trekking with numerous cows by foot from the North to parts of the South in search of grasses to feed their cows. The ex-President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo said the Netherlands has taught everyone that grasses can be grown anywhere digitally. “The present system is archaic, dangerous to the cows and the herdsmen and inimical to the maintenance of public security. No reasonable government will allow it to continue”, Nwodo noted that the changes in cultural values have traumatized the society and led to cybercrime, illiteracy, insecurity, electoral dishonesty, lack of accountability, retardation in educational standards and insecurity. He advocated that states determine their social welfare policies, security, own their natural resources but pay royalties to the Federal Government for common services. Nwodo condemned the quota system, noting that major industrialized countries thrive on merit as this promotes competition, rewards hard work and drives development. He said the idea of gaining admission to a Federal Secondary School, a Polytechnic, a University or the Civil Service, without excelling in a competitive examination, destroys personal efforts and discovery of talents “This is the only country in the world where videos of electoral polling booths are showed by television stations yet courts hold that the test of proving without reasonable doubt has not been met. “This is the only country in the world where the defeated will find it difficult to concede because there is usually no compelling reason to do so. “This is the only country in the world where it can take up to six months or more to conclude an election petition through the judicial process.” The former two-time Minister bemoaned the wrong and inadequate deployment of youths and women in political activities. Nwodo said as long as young people take the back seat in politics and prefer to receive handouts from politicians, they may not assume political offices early.