The Management of the Obafemi Awolowo University, (OAU), Ile-Ife has debunked the information currently in circulation that female students of the institution were being raped by commercial motorcyclists, popularly called Okada riders, within the town. The management also made it known that students of the institution had been on holiday for more than a year following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic across the country. Speaking to DAILY POST on telephone on behalf of the OAU Management, the Public Relations Officer of the University, Mr. Olarewaju Abiodun also disclosed that there were various avenues through which such cases could have been handled and that the students were aware of it. He revealed that as far as the school management was concerned, there had not been any official complaint from any quarter regarding cases of rape. In his words, “we don’t act on rumours but on facts. Anything that is brought to the attention of the university is what it will react on. “I have not heard anything about rape incidents and I will not react to rumours. The students know the university has mechanisms put in place to deal with such cases. “According to the rumour, the incidents happened outside the university, moreover, the students know that the Nigeria Police handles criminal cases. “If anything happens outside the university and no report is made to the police and the school, but rather it is being peddled as a rumour and discussed in students’ circles, then it is a sad development.” Also, the acting Chief Security Officer, Mr. Oyatokun Babatunde explained that it was still a rumour and the school management had not received any complaints from the affected students of the university. According to him, “Any Information about such issues always emanate from the Public Relations Officer and I treat such as authentic.” He disclosed that he has made his mobile number available to both students and staff so that anybody with such information should come forward. DAILY POST reports that some female students of the university had alleged that commercial motorcyclists within Ife, under many guises, raped some of them. They also complained that apart from the incidents of rape, Okada riders use the opportunity to molest and steal the personal effects of some female students.