The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has called on Christian leaders not to relent in praying for Nigeria to overcome its challenges. Fayemi made the call when he received in audience the Southwest Zonal Executives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) who paid him a courtesy visit in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. Represented by the Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, the Governor hailed the contribution of the Church to peace, stability, social and economic development of the country. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, the delegation of the Southwest CAN was led by its Chairman, Rev. Fr. Raphael Oluwafemi Osegboun. The Christian body, during the visit, described Governor Fayemi as “a worthy ambassador of Christian values, a promoter of peace and harmony in Nigeria and making positive things happen at a difficult period in Ekiti.” The courtesy visit to the Governor’s Office was part of activities to mark the First Quarter Meeting and the Maiden Meeting of CAN Chairmen in all the six southwest states since the inauguration of the new zonal exco in February. Fayemi stressed the importance of the Church in nation-building, spiritual upliftment, contribution to the less privileged and access to education cannot be overemphasized. Fayemi charged Christian leaders to keep on praying for the country to experience a positive turnaround, believing that prayers will go a long way in engendering a prosperous country that all Nigerians crave for. He said: “I am sure you have been praying for us. We know the work of the Church everywhere and without the Church, we cannot be where we are today. “The Church brought many of us from grass to grace, gave us education and brought us nearer to God. You have continued with the work of teaching and evangelism and we are happy that CAN in the Southwest have gathered here in our State which I consider as a blessing. “I believe your prayers will save us in this country and we will always be ready to cooperate with you to make our country great and ensure that that it continues to witness peace and development.” Speaking earlier, the Southwest CAN Chairman, Rev. Fr. Osegboun, hailed Fayemi’s contributions to national peace and unity and the developmental strides of his administration in key sectors at a difficult period in Ekiti. The zonal CAN boss also hailed the Ekiti State government under Fayemi’s leadership for returning some mission schools to their owners and for working hand-in-hand with the Church for the progress of the society. Rev. Fr. Osegboun emphasized that Government should see the Church as a partner in progress rather than as a competitor as it is also an important stakeholder in fostering moral rectitude and integral development of the people. He added: “We have come to express the love and respect we have for you as one of our Christian leaders in Southwest, Nigeria and also as the Chairman of all Governors in Nigeria. We also express our esteem for the worthy religious values that you cherish.” “We wish to show fraternal solidarity with all your people in this State, Christians and non-Christians alike who through their constitution have firmly and solemnly resolved to live in unity and harmony and to work for the welfare of all. “It is our humble desire to pay tribute to your Government’s contributions under your leadership to justice, the well being of pupils and students, positive gender-based programmes, assistance to the aged and vulnerable and building of lasting infrastructures in Ekiti.” The CAN leaders also used the opportunity of the visit to pray for peace, stability and prosperity of Ekiti State in particular and Nigeria as a whole.