The Abia State Government in collaboration with the State Police Command has demolished two buildings in the state used to house kidnap victims in different parts of the State. DAILY POST reports that the demolition executed in line with the Abia State Anti-Kidnap Law of 2016 as amended, affected a bungalow located in Eziala-Nsulu, Isialangwa North Local Government Area of the State and 7, Oma Close, Opposite New Life, Uratta in Aba South LGA. The State Commissioner of Police, CP Janet Agbede, while speaking to newsmen at one of the demolition sites, revealed that the Security Adviser to the Governor of Abia State, Captain Awa Udensi (Rtd) said the house at Eziala-Nsulu was used as a den for kidnappers to keep their victims. Udensi said the Police had in February, arrested three suspected criminals and recovered locally made riffles in the second building located at Omalozu Avenue, off Uratta Road. He disclosed that two of the three suspected kidnappers arrested by the police have confessed to the crime. Captain Udensi further revealed that during interrogations by the police, the suspected criminals arrested from Omalozu Avenue, Aba, voluntarily confessed to the crime of kidnapping with names of their past victims. The Security Adviser explained that the penalty for kidnapping is death upon conviction, while any building used as a hideout for kidnapping would be demolished in line with the law. According to him, the demolition would serve as a lesson to those who use their houses or avail their houses as kidnappers’ hideouts. He informed that the present government under the leadership of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has zero tolerance for crime, adding that the Governor has maintained synergy between the government and the security agencies in the State towards protecting its citizens. Udensi urged landlords and tenants to make sure they fish out suspected criminals among them by reporting them to the police. He assured that the government was committed to providing adequate security for the protection of lives and property.