The Ogun State Police Command has uncovered a new tactic employed by kidnappers in carrying out their nefarious activities in some parts of the state. This was made known by Abimbola Oyeyemi, the state command’s spokesman. The command said kidnappers now position their operational vehicle by the road side, pretending to be out for commercial services, with about four members of the gang posing as passengers in the vehicle. Oyeyemi stated that the kidnappers will then start moving round, looking for their targeted victim, supposedly to complete the fifth passenger in the vehicle. “Once the victim enters the vehicle, they will drive into a hideout and start demanding for ransom,” he explained. In view of this new development, the command has appealed to members of the public to be extra-vigilant, and be mindful of the type of vehicle they take, most especially while on an inter-state journey. Instead of boarding vehicles by the road side, Oyeyemi advised going to designated motor parks whenever travelling to avoid falling into the hands of kidnappers. “The Command also wants to use this medium to advise students of tertiary intuitions, especially off-campus students, to be more security conscious. “They should be wary of where they visit, the time they do the visit and when they return to their hostels or residences, and should not keep later hours. “They should also ensure they have telephone numbers of the Area Commanders and DPOs covering their areas for immediate call whenever under distress, and should not hesitate to report any suspicious movement, whether on foot or in vehicle, to the police. In addition, police control room’s numbers that can be contacted in time of distress are: 08081770416, 08081770419, 08066611771. “With the prevailing situation in the country, it is necessary for all and sundry not to leave the security of their homes and persons to only the police and other security agencies. It is therefore re-emphasized that security is everyone’s business,” it was advised.