The Governor Dapo Abiodun-led government in Ogun State has refused to mourn two deceased Ogun erstwhile political office holders – a former Commissioner and a former Majority Leader of the Ogun State House of Assembly. DAILY POST recalls that the former Majority Leader, Yinka Mafe, died on February 4, 2020, the same day he celebrated his 46th birthday. Mafe’s death attracted condolences from many people across all walks of life, but not from Abiodun or the Ogun State Government. The deceased lawyer, who was of the same Remo extraction as Gov Abiodun, left behind his children, a wife and father. But, there were no kind words from the state government to the grieving family of the deceased at the time. On his funeral, there was no representation from the government to honour a man who was once a Principal Officer and two-term lawmaker of the Ogun State Legislature. Recently, the State also lost a former Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Barrister Segun Odubela, who was said to have died of COVID-19. Another lawyer, Odubela, also died at an unripe age of 55, leaving behind children, wife and other family members. Just like Mafe, Odubela was a native of Remo, as he also hailed from the same Ikenne Local Government as Gov. Abiodun. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria was buried on Wednesday at his home town in Ikenne, a stone’s throw from Government Abiodun’s Iperu country home. The burial service held at the RIYE Methodist Church, Ikenne, was attended by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu. Obaaki said, “I led my deputy, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu and other government officials to pay our last respects to late Hon. Barr. John Olusegun Odubela (SAN). “Segun can be said to be an Edo boy because since 2006, he has been part of our struggle for democracy in Edo, defending cases for the last 15 years. He was not just a lawyer but one who was committed towards the defense of democracy. His contributions to the development of the judicial system will not be forgotten.” Also present was former Governor Amosun, under whom Odubela served as a Commissioner, from 2011 to 2015. But, Gov Abiodun was conspicuously absent at the funeral of a man, who can as well be described as his kinsman. DAILY POST gathered that Odubela used to be a close ally of Abiodun, especially during his struggle to become the Senator of Ogun East in 2015. The late Odubela, it was reliably learnt, was the Director General of Dapo Political Organisation (DAPO) during the campaign back then in 2015. Prince Abiodun lost the election to late Senator Buruji Kashamu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It was not clear why the governor, who is known for celebrating birthdays and other events on his social media handles, decided to ignore both Odubela and Mafe at death. But observers in Ogun political space opined that the reason might be as a result of their close relationship with Senator Amosun.