Doyin Okupe, a former aide to ex-Presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan has revealed how he played a part in the visit of the late Igbo leader, Odumegwu Ojukwu to Lagos Island club where he (Ikemba) delivered his famous “hand shake across the Niger” speech. Okupe stated this as he continues his apologies to the Igbo following his social media outbursts against the Igbo nation over the 2023 presidency. The former presidential aide had in a series of tweets on Saturday, claimed that the North are yet to forgive the Igbo over the incidences of 1966, of which one of the high points was the killing of Sardauna of Sokoto. And since then, the politician, who has shown interest to run in the 2023 presidential election, has been asking for forgiveness from Igbo and Nigerians in general. As he rightly noted, the posts he shared on Facebook and Twitter, have generated unprecedented outcry and widespread animosity, especially among the Igbo. The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo had lashed out at him angrily over the to a recent comment, saying “there is every indication that Doyin Okupe needs urgent medical attention. His action is not far from a person that is mentally deranged.” But speaking again on Sunday, Okupe wrote: “My late mum was raised in Onitsha and she spoke Igbo fluently. One of my grandsons is Igbo. “I was central to the visit of the late Ikemba, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, to Lagos Island club where he delivered his famous ‘Handshake across the Niger’ Speech. “I was with him all night while he put finishing touches to the speech and it was the Chairman of Ekeson Motors and I who went with him to Island club for the celebrated event. “Also because of our affinity and closeness, he invited me to accompany him on his tour of the North. “Many have wondered what was my motive in publishing the said Facebook post. I dare say that my intentions were noble. I know for a fact that this situation exists. I also know that political equity and fairness cannot be achieved till the Igbos have their shot at the presidency.”