The Ekiti State Police Commissioner, Mr Babatunde Mobayo, has clarified that the policewoman, who was shot during the Saturday’s House of Assembly bye-election in Ekiti East constituency 1, is responding to treatment. Contrary to widespread speculations in some quarters that the policewoman lost her life during the bloody poll, Mobayo said the victim only sustained gunshot wounds and was immediately rushed to the hospital for medicare. DAILY POST reported that three persons were on Saturday shot dead by party thugs while five others sustained gunshot wounds during the House of Assembly bye-election conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the state constituency . Speaking with journalists via telephone in Ado Ekiti, on Sunday, Mobayo, who responded through the Command’s spokesman, ASP Sunday Abutu, said the police officer shot was recuperating. “No police officer died during the shooting by party thugs. Though, one of our officers was shot, she didn’t die as wrongly speculated. “The policewoman, who though was in a critical condition yesterday is now responding to treatment. She is getting better,” he said. Mobayo said his men had arrested three suspected perpetrators of the shootings and they are now being detained at the police headquarters in Ado Ekiti. “Yes, three suspected party things have been arrested. They were picked up where they were hiding and are now being detained in our headquarters. “Murder is a capital offence and police won’t watch and allow anyone takes laws into his own hands freely. Nigeria is a nation being guided by laws. “Just like we assured our people on Saturday, everyone who had hands in the killings will be brought to book. “And I am assuring that all those that were arrested will be taken to court as soon as we conclude investigations and gather enough evidence”, the CP stated. The seat became vacant following the death of an All Progressives Congress lawmaker representing the constituency in the State House of Assembly, Hon Juwa Adegbuyi in February. The election had also been suspended by INEC owing to the violence that trailed the poll.