The Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abia North Senatorial district, of Abia State, Chief Amah Abraham has insisted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) has long been rejected by the people of the state, because of its obvious failure in the leadership of the country. Fielding questions from newsmen in Umuahia on Tuesday, Abraham remarked that elections were determined by performance, adding that with the massive infrastructure ongoing in Aba metropolis, the residents of Aba are happy with the Ikpeazu government and are ready to reciprocate the kindness and benevolence of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for his party, the PDP on Saturday during the oncoming bye election. “APC shouldn’t be asking for the votes of Aba people because the party has not done anything in Aba and cannot point at any structure it has built in the city since it took over power in 2015. Rather, what it has inflicted on Aba residents is insecurity and killings,” he said. On insecurity in the country, he contended that the recent profiling of the Fulani as bandits and terrorists was borne out of the fact that the federal government led by Muhammadu Buhari, a Fulani, has not lived up to expectations in terms of securing the country. “Before now, we have had Presidents and Heads of State who are of Fulani descent, like Shehu Shagari, Sani Abacha and Umaru Musa Yar’Adua who have ruled this country and did well. Why is Buhari’s own different? “It’s because people around him keep on deceiving him, hiding the truth from him, telling him that he’s doing pretty well in all fronts while in actual fact, all is not well in all areas, particularly in the area of security”, he declared. Abraham maintained that Buhari’s failure to secure the country should not be borne by him alone, but leaders including Igbos who surround him. “We have people like Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State who keep on urging him on, informing people that he (Buhari) is a good leader who is doing marvelously well in all areas including security; why won’t he flounder and dither? “During the regimes of these past rulers including that of Olusegun Obasanjo, people like Dr Alex Ekwueme, Dr Chuba Okadigbo, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim etc were on hand to commend where necessary and condemn when the need arose, but not so today. “In Obasanjo’s era, governors then like Victor Attah, Donald Duke and few others performed excellently; establishing structures that will continue to endure for decades. But not so in Abia State where Orji Kalu governed. All the structures he built have all decayed. Instead showing remorse, Kalu has continued to misinform the people on the projects being done in Aba.
“And today, he’s asking Aba electorates to vote for his younger brother, Mascot Uzor Kalu as Member, House of Representatives for the Aba North/Aba South federal constituency. During Sam Mbakwe’s administration of Old Imo State, structures were built in Aba which are visible today and that’s what Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is trying to replicate in the commercial city and he’s saying the opposite”, he submitted. He asked Aba residents to vote en masses for the PDP candidate in the Saturday’s Bye Election for Aba North/Aba South federal constituency. The former Abia governor, he remarked, was involved in the worse anti-party activity in recorded history. “How can you be in another party and secure a ticket for your younger brother in another political party and even made him to defeat your party in the election? “For the eight years Nnanna Uzor Kalu represented Aba North/Aba South, nothing was attracted to the city. He didn’t even utter a word in the House. His representation was known as deaf and dumb era”, he stated.