A 47-year-old man, Adamu Gwaldi of Anguwan Magaji in Yola South Local Government Area of Adamawa State, has been docked for allegedly defiling a 19-year-old boy and infecting him with HIV. Abdulrahaman who appeared before Justice Nathan Musa of the state High Court, Yola, was alleged to have had sexual intercourse with Sani Fidelis and his friend Mathias Cosmas, both teenage boys in Muchalla ward in Mubi North LGA, and infected them with HIV. Testifying in court, Fidelis said he and his friend left Muchalla, a community in Mubi North LGA, and travelled to the state capital, Yola, in March 2019 in search of a job and that on arrival in Yola town, they asked for the house of Magajin Gari (community leader). He said on their arrival at the Magajin Gari’s residence around 7:30pm, the defendant met and told them that he was the Magajin Gari. Fidelis said Gwaldi took them to his house, gave them food and drugs which he asked them to take to reduce stress. He said they ate the food, took the drugs and slept, but that he noticed vaguely during the night that somebody was on his back and having sexual intercourse with him through the anus. He said he woke up and had severe pains in his anus and found blood and sperm on himself and his friend, adding that they tried to open the door but found that it was locked and Gwaldi was nowhere in sight. He added that somehow, Gwaldi kept them in the room and had sexual intercourse with them for one week and that one day, Gwaldi told him that he was going to take Mathias back to Muchalla but that since then, he had not seen Mathias. Revealing how he got out of Gwaldi’s house, Fidelis said he went out of the house one fateful morning when Gwaldi was away, that he met some people around the area and pleaded with them to rescue him, upon which one Philip Bwasa rescued him after he was briefed by the people. Philip Bwasa, Fidelis said, took him to the Magajin Gari and later reported the matter to the police which led to the arrest of Gwaldi. Philip Bwasa who also testified in court recalled that at the time he was trying to rescue the boy, Gwaldi met him and warned him to stop interfering in his affairs. Also testifying, the Investigative Police Officer (IPO), Sergeant Ishaya Iliya, said that the matter was reported at the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Police headquarters, Yola and that in the course of investigations, the boy was taken to the specialist hospital Yola, where it was confirmed, had been defiled and infected with HIV. After cross-examination by the defence counsel, N. I. El-Yakub, counsel to the prosecution, D. I. Kulthu who is the Senior State Counsel II, tendered confessional statements of both the parties in evidence. The judge adjourned the matter for the continuation of hearing to April 27, 2021