Parents of Leah Sharibu, Nathan and Rebecca have decried the abandonment of their daughter, Leah with her abductors by the Federal Government, saying her endless captivity is a sad situation. Although the teenager is said to be nursing her second child in captivity, her parents said Nigeria has failed Leah, and pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari to accept America’s offer of assistance to secure the release of their daughter. The parents in a statement issued to DAILY POST by their spokesperson, Dr. Gloria Puldu demanded that President Buhari brings back their daughter with or without children because Leah still remains their child, and they will take her back no matter the situation or the condition she comes out with. The statement reads in part, “Morning of March 23 was another very difficult day as we woke up to the very sad and heartbreaking rumours that Leah Sharibu who is still in captivity since three years has given birth to a second baby in captivity. “It is a very big shame on General Buhari and his entire government. He has abandoned this young child in captivity. DAILY POST recalls that two weeks ago, Nathan and Rebecca called on the President to use the current negotiators his administration is using who successfully negotiated and secured the release of mostly, if not all 300 Muslim Kankara boys from Katsina, just six days after their abduction. Recall also that in February 2021 they also negotiated and secured the release of about 27 school boys from Kagara in Niger State and 317 schoolgirls from Jangebe in Zamfara State who all regained their freedom within a few days of their abduction. The parents further lamented that, “Nigeria has woefully failed Leah Sharibu, what a very big shame. Nations all across the world value their citizens and will go to any length to rescue their adult citizens let alone their children, yet the Buhari administration has abandoned Leah Sharibu, the lone Christian girl for over three years in captivity.” It added, “This same administration has abandoned the remaining 112 Chibok girls for almost 7 years. Nigerians recently saw how the American Government came to rescue one of its citizens who was abducted in Niger Republic but transported into Nigeria (another Sovereign State). “Yet Leah, a minor has been abandoned and forgotten by her government”, they decried. “We know that the American Government has recently offered to assist Nigeria in its fight against insecurity if the Nigerian Government requests for its assistance. “Leah’s parents are calling on General Buhari to please accept the American offer of assistance to secure the release of their daughter, especially if his current successful negotiators are not able to secure her release as they did with the recent school abductions. “Nigerians are tired of the widespread insecurity all across the country especially the frequent school children abductions. “Traumatised parents of Leah, Nathan and Rebecca Sharibu are crying and demanding that General Buhari brings back their daughter with or without children. Leah still remains their child and they will take her back no matter the situation or the condition she comes out with. “Leah remains a heroine in the eyes of every Christian all over the world for her bold and courageous stand to refuse to renounce her Christian faith despite the extreme danger. “Leah represents the face of women and girls in all forms of slavery and captivity in Nigeria. “We call on all well-meaning Nigerians not to remain silent but speak up against the injustice done against our children,” they stressed.