Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Workers across the country, yesterday, trooped out en-masse to picket the National Assembly in Abuja and other 36 states’ House of Assemblies over a plan to move minimum wage from the Exclusive List. 2. There was chaos on the Benin-Ore expressway, yesterday, following a blockade at Ofosu by angry petroleum tankers and other articulated vehicle drivers over the killing of two of their members by suspected Fulani herdsmen Tuesday night. The killer herdsmen were said to have also made away with an undisclosed amount of money from the drivers. 3. The House of Representatives, yesterday, charged the government to halt the appropriation and disbursement of £4.2 million recovered by the British government from former Delta State governor, James Ibori. The resolution was made following a motion by Ndudi Elumelu, which contended that the funds ought to be refunded to Delta State for developmental purposes. 4. The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Abdulrasheed Bawa, on Wednesday, testified before the Lagos State High Court, Ikeja, in an alleged N1.4bn subsidy fraud suit against an oil company, Nadabo Energy. 5. The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Wednesday, held a closed-door meeting with the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, in a bid to resolve the political crisis in Imo State. 6. The President of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba on Wednesday, disclosed that the organized labour will embark on an indefinite strike if the bill to remove minimum wage from Exclusive Legislative List to Concurrent Legislative List is allowed to pass. 7. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and other governors, yesterday received their jabs of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in their various states. 8. The Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, yesterday, revealed that bandits killed 937 persons in the State last year. According to the Commissioner in charge of the ministry Samuel Aruwan, 1,972 residents were also kidnapped in 2020. 9. Some students who were studying at a secondary school in Damaga community, Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State, fled on Wednesday when armed bandits reportedly attacked the school, killing about 13 persons. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 394 new cases of COVID-19 in 18 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 159,646.