Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Chief of Defence Staff, Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor, yesterday, said the military has resolved to kill all non-state-actors in communities, forests and countryside across Nigeria. The military chief stated this during a one-day National Defence and Security Summit in Abuja, on Monday. 2. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, said it has concluded an arrangement to resume Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) nationwide in the second quarter of 2021. Wunmi Balogun, INEC Head of ICT, Ibadan, gave the hint on Monday. 3. The Kaduna State Government on Monday, said a Fulani community leader in the Doka general area of Kajuru Local Government Area, Alhaji Lawal Musa, has been killed by armed bandits. This was contained in a statement issued by Samuel Aruwan Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security. 4. President Buhari, on Monday, met with former governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole, who recently dumped their political parties for the APC. 5. Benue Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday, warned against politicising recent armed attack on him by suspected militia herdsmen. He said it should be treated on the merit of the insecurity bedevilling the country. Ortom, gave the warning while briefing newsmen at the Government House, Makurdi on Monday. 6. Youths across the three local government areas of the Ibarapa zone of Oyo State, yesterday, protested at Governor’s Office, Ibadan, demanding immediate release of three members of the OPC arraigned for conspiracy, arson, willful destruction and murder in connection with the arrest of a suspected Fulani kidnap, Iskilu Wakili. 7. The House of Representatives, on Monday, said that state creation, local government, electoral, judicial reforms and greater women participation in politics will be accorded priority in the ongoing review of the 1999 Constitution. Deputy speaker and chairman, House Special Ad-hoc Committee on Review of the Constitution, Idris Wase, stated this in Abuja yesterday. 8. Against the backdrop of the recent rise in global oil prices, some fuel marketers have increased the price of Automotive Gas Oil, also known as diesel, to N265 per litre. 9. The FG has said about 122,410 people have been vaccinated with the Oxford AstraZeneca jabs in Nigeria with available records indicating no serious adverse incidents since the commencement of the exercise. Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, disclosed this at the briefing of the PTF on COVID-19 yesterday in Abuja. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 131 new cases of COVID-19 in 14 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of confirmed infections to 161,868.