The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has promised to complete road projects awarded but abandoned by the immediate past administration. Abiodun said the roads have direct socioeconomic benefits on the residents of the state. He spoke on the sidelines of the inspection of three key road projects including Lafenwa-Ayetoro, Panseke-Adigbe-Opako and Oke-Lantoro-Elite-Idi Aba, in Abeokuta, the state capital. Abiodun said more fund would be allocated to the ongoing construction of 53KM Lafenwa-Ayetoro road to ensure its timely completion. He noted that the projects awarded by his predecessor, ought to have been given more priority than it was given by the previous administration. According to the governor, work would be expedited on the project which he described as a “major arterial road between Ogun Central and Ogun West”. He said: “We are committed to the quick completion of Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road because it accounts for thousands of our citizens that are travelling between Ayetoro and Abeokuta for commerce, school and work. “In my own opinion, this project should have been given more priority than it was given by the previous administration, we should have not come to meet this project in the state as we have met it. “I have seen that there are areas and pockets of parts of this project that require immediate attention, particularly, the part and area towards Lafenwa market, which is extremely deplorable. I have consequently instructed the contractor to move to that part of this project and immediately make it motorable so that it can bring the needed relief to the travelling passengers going from Abeokuta to Ayetoro.” On the three-kilometre Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road, Abiodun disclosed that the road will be further extended by one and a half kilometres, to solve the perennial flooding and submerging of Opako culvert as well as to ease vehicular movement between Obafemi Owode and Abeokuta South Local Government Areas. He, however, disclosed that he had been assured by the construction company that the road would be completed by the second week of May. “The contractor has assured us that this project will be finished in the second week of May. We will be back here, we are going to hold the contractor to his words. He says May 20, that date is just about another month and a half away and we will all come back here to witness that indeed the road is completed,” Abiodun stated.