The newly installed patron, Oyo State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Dr Henry Akinduro has cautioned newsmen against sharing fake information. Akinduro gave this charge during his investiture on Sunday. While warning journalists to shun the distribution of fake news as part of their efforts towards contributing to national development, he added that fake news is dangerous to the survival of the nation. He also called on journalists to do more research on the security challenges bedevilling the country, while also urging them to promote the victory of the Nigerian military over those of bandits and terrorists. He said, “Journalism is not all about the news. We must verify information about news very well as journalists before we display them. “Fake news is dangerous to the community and the most important information I want to pass across today is that all journalists must verify their information before they publish. “A situation where you promote more of the victory of the military over the incident that happens through Boko Haram and bandits. I think that will help a lot.” NUJ Chairman, Alhaji Ademola Babalola, in his welcome address, described Akinduro as God’s vessel who has been propagating ideals of a typical Yoruba Omoluabi. “For emphasis sake, our new Patron is neither the richest nor the wealthiest Nigerian today, but he is wired with the spirit of attending to the needs of the people everywhere he goes. From Ondo State, his hometown to the neighbouring states in the Southwest, especially Lagos and Ibadanland, Akinduro’s hand of fellowship rings true. “He is a God’s vessel, propagating ideals of a typical Yoruba Omoluabi. He comes across as a devout Christian having had Deeper Life background as a staunch worshipper for decades. Today he gives to many Churches, according to what God has deposited in his hand. Dignitaries present at the event include the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Rauf Olaniyan, Nollywood actors and actresses, Jide Kosoko, Dele Odule and Peju Omobolanle.