In commemoration of the 2021 World Oral Health Day, Colgate the world’s leading and the most chosen toothpaste brand collaborated with the Nigerian Dental Students Association and the Nigerian Medical Students Association to reach out to 44 locations in rural communities across 31 states in Nigeria.  At each location, activities started in the early hours of the morning with oral health sensitization walk; Colgate team, dental students and medical students combed densely populated areas around the activation points such as the markets, residentials raising awareness about preventing dental cavities and the importance of ensuring a good oral hygiene practice. After wards, everyone had the opportunity to visit the Colgate Dental Checkup stand to have their mouth screened at zero cost by licensed and certified dentist.   In Abuja, the team visited Paiko community, Gwagwalada engaging families, market women, children and conducted household calls to preach the message of adopting a good oral care habit in alignment with the 2021 theme “Be Proud of your Smile”.   According to the Chief Executive Officer, Colgate Palmolive Tolaram, Mr. Girish Sharma- “we are particularly excited about this year’s World Oral Health Day campaign as it holds the potential to transform the lives of many across the nation”. Colgate’s partnership with the Nigerian Dental Students Association and the Nigerian Medical Students Association made the impact even more far-reaching as it facilitated the possibility of simultaneously combing through the nooks and crannies of over 44 communities across 31 state in a day. Although, the target population reach for this exercise is over 18,000 for both adult and children, however, this syncs seamlessly with Colgate’s 2021 goal of touching more than 2million people through its Free Dental check up camps present in 9 states across Nigeria.  Oral care is a very important aspect of the human overall health and wellness, and preventing cavity is one of the cardinal parts of enjoying a good oral health. It is therefore imperative to create awareness around oral care. We are committed to proffer effective solutions to the spread of tooth cavities as well as aggressively promoting preventive oral care in Nigeria which is why we decided to go national with the campaign to deeply penetrate the rural communities ensuring they also benefit from the free dental screening opportunity.  According to the president of Nigerian Association of Dental Students, Michael Adejumo “We embarked on this campaign to support our brand, Colgate and to enhance publicity on good oral care habits across every state in Nigeria and around the world.  Also speaking was the President, Nigerian Medical Student, Dan-Buba Mohammed “It is a responsibility of medical Students and medical profession to be able to make advocacy campaign that while doctors treat diseases in the hospital, medical students will be preventing the occurrence of these diseases”. WOHD is celebrated throughout the world on March 20 each year, with a wide range of awareness-raising activities organized by dentists, dental students, and National Dental Associations (NDAs). It offers the dental and oral health community a platform to take action and help reduce the global disease burden of oral disease. L-R: A Beneficiary, Hajiya Hauwa Rahmat, President Nigeria Medical Student Association, Mr. Danbuba Muhammad, Public Relation Manager Tolaram Group, Mrs. Omotayo Abiodun, A Dentist, Dr. Kayode Ogunyemi, President Nigeria Association of Dental Students, Mr. Michael Adejumo; and Sponsorship Manager Tolaram Group, Mr. Opeyemi Awojobi during the Colgate World Oral Health Day campaign at Paiko Village in Abuja.