Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Nigerians, yesterday, woke up to yet another hike in the price of petrol from N165 naira per litre to N212.61. But the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr Timipreye Sylva asked Nigerians to disregard the increase, saying it was a mix-up. 2. The National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd.), yesterday alleged that $1bn funds meant to purchase arms to tackle insurgency during the ex-service chiefs’ tenure got missing. This comes over a month after the ex-service chiefs’ resignation and replacement by President Muhammadu Buhari. 3. Panic buying of petrol, and long queues of vehicles were witnessed at many filling stations across the country on Friday after a reported increase in pump price from N162 to N212.16 by the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency. 4. Gunmen on Friday attacked the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, located opposite the permanent site of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA). They were almost making away with 219 students and staff of the college when soldiers from the NDA stormed the scene and rescued 180 victims. 5. The Lagos State Judicial Panel probing police brutality, on Friday awarded N7.5 million to a petitioner, Marc Chidiebere Nwadi, who was imprisoned for six years without trial, following his arrest by the police. 6. The House of Representatives was furious, yesterday, over the absence of the Chief of Army Staff, Major-General Ibrahim Attahiru, at a panel investigating the procurement of arms and ammunition for the prosecution of the war against insurgency in the last ten years. 7. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday cautioned the federal government against increasing the pump price of petrol to N212 per litre, saying it will be an invitation for mass protest. The party stated this in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan. 8. The Supreme Court, yesterday, affirmed the conviction and 10-year jail term of Joshua Dariye, former governor of Plateau State. The EFCC had in 2007 charged Dariye to court and accused him of diverting N1.126 billion from Plateau government’s ecological fund. 9. A 38-year-old lecturer at the Kwara State College of Health Technology, Offa, Adebisi Ademola, was on Friday sentenced to six months imprisonment for his involvement in a romance scam. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 399 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 17 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The health agency made the announcement on Friday night via a tweet on its official Twitter handle.