The leadership of the All Progressives Congress, APC, on Monday paid a condolence visit to the family of late Enugu monarch, HRM, Igwe Onyioha Nwanjoku. Until his death, Nwanjoku was the traditional ruler of Ohofia Ndumeze Kingdom in Aninri local government area of Enugu State. Mai-Mala Buni, the Chairman, APC National Caretaker Committee was represented on the visit by the Enugu State Caretaker Chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye. Igwe Njoku was the father of Enugu West Zonal Youth leader of the APC, Hon. James Okugo Nwanjoku. DAILY POST recalls that the late first class monarch and a former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Enugu state passed on on 24th February 2021 at the Niger Foundation Hospital, Enugu. Nwoye, who poured encomiums on the late monarch described him as: “A legend, a political juggernaut and a practical politician.” “We are to celebrate the life of an oracle and pay our respect to a father.” “On behalf of the APC, we felicitate with you on the life of this legend and commiserate with your family, the people of Ohofia Ndumeze Kingdom and the entire Enugu State for this great loss and promise to be there to celebrate his last ofala with the family because, a King never dies,” Nwoye said. Responding on behalf of the family, the Crown Prince, Hon. Okezie Nwanjoku expressed the family’s gratitude to the APC leadership. Continuing, Hon. Okezie told the visiting party leaders: “We are encouraged by your visit and also thrilled by the encomium poured on dad who lived a fulfilled life of a father, mentor, leader and a politician. “We are consoled by your visit and kind words. At 81, we believe he has done his best and we all grew to know him as our father, a rare privilege he never enjoyed himself having lost his own dad at the age of 12. “Our father died as a good King he was, who doesn’t want to stress his children because before his death, he attended the last meeting of the council of Traditional Rulers in Aninri which he chairs and had a good time with his grandchildren in the afternoon of the same day.”