Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Arewa Youth Assembly, AYA, yesterday issued 72 hours ultimatum to the Yoruba activist, Mr Sunday Igboho to move his people from the north, adding that failure to do so, they will be forced to take necessary actions by personally taking the responsibility of getting them back home. Mohammed Salihu Danlami, Speaker, Arewa Youth Assembly, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. 2. The Court of Appeal in Abuja on Thursday dismissed the alleged University of Ibadan degree certificate forgery suit filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) against Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. The court dismissed the suit for lacking in merit and awarded N250, 000 cost in favour of Mr Obaseki. 3. The European Medicines Agency yesterday disclosed that the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is safe and effective. The Agency’s Chief, Emer Cooke made this known to newsmen during a press conference after a probe of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine by the body’s safety committee on Thursday. 4. The Kwara State Government has directed teachers and staff of all the ten mission schools shut down in Ilorin, to report at their respective schools on Friday, March 19, 2021. In a statement by the Press Secretary of the commission, Amogbonjaye Peter, the chairman, said workers who fail to adhere to the directive would be faced with the wrath of the law. 5. Following the incessant abduction of schoolchildren, the Zamfara State Government yesterday said that all boarding schools earlier closed by the government should be reopened with immediate effect and be converted to day schools. This was contained in a statement signed by the State Commissioner for Education, Alh Aliyu Tukur ES. 6. The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) yesterday, reported an alleged attack on Fulani herdsmen in Anambra State to the police. The report signed by the Zonal Chairman, Gidado Siddiki, claimed that 30 Fulani herders and 322 cows are missing. 7. Gunmen on Thursday reportedly killed four naval men and three policemen in different locations in Anambra State. The hoodlums killed three policemen at Ukacha Junction, Neni, in the Anaocha Local Government Area while the four naval men were reportedly killed at Awkuzu, in Oyi LGA of the state. 8. About 56 residents of Gwangwan village in Kano State have reportedly been vomiting and urinating blood due to an outbreak of a mysterious ailment that struck the village recently. 9. The Presidency, yesterday, disclosed that six of the 12 Super Tucanos were on track to arrive in mid-July 2021 and the remaining six, shortly after that. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, made the disclosure on Thursday via his verified twitter handle. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 135 new COVID-1 cases in 15 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded infections in the country so far to 161,409.