Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Presidency, yesterday, insisted that there is no rift between President Muhammadu Buhari and the former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu. Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said the duo have a very strong commitment to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Nigerian people. 2. The Senate on Wednesday, confirmed the appointment of Haliru Nababa, as the Controller-General of the Nigerian Correctional Service. This is following a request by President Muhammadu Buhari. 3. Unknown gunmen, on Wednesday, abducted four residents of Kiyi town in Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The abductors, via a phone call, demanded N200 million from families of the abductees. 5. MultiChoice Nigeria on Wednesday announced the 2021 season and the sixth edition of the Big Brother Naija, BBNaija show. The organizer announced a N90m grand prize for this year’s edition of the television reality show. 6. The Ogun State Government said it has beefed up security around all public schools in the state to guard against the incidence of kidnapping. Governor Dapo Abiodun said this on Wednesday in Abeokuta when he received members of the House of Representatives Committee on Basic Education, led by its Chairman, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere. 7. The Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, yesterday, said that South-West governors, with their anti-herdsmen stance, are creating problems for the All Progressives Congress Chieftain, Bola Tinubu, and his rumoured presidential ambition in 2023. 8. The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was in Katsina on Wednesday on a sympathy visit over Monday’s fire disaster at the Katsina central market. He donated N50 million as a relief to traders whose shops and goods were destroyed by the fire. 9. Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has again restated its earlier warning that the nation’s ship is in serious danger and called on President Muhammadu Buhari to wake up from his “slumber” and address the situation without further delay. Spokesman of the group, Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, made the observation when he appeared on Arise Television on Wednesday. 10. The Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 96 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 162,178. The health agency made the announcement on Wednesday night while giving an update on its official website.