A chieftain of Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Oyo State, Engineer Oyedele Hakeem Alao has described the demolition of Oyo State House in Abuja as needless and another attempt by Governor Seyi Makinde to waste the State’s resources. DAILY POST recalls that Makinde had last month ordered the demolition of Oyo State lodge located at Asokoro area of Abuja. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa when contacted, had told DAILY POST that the building needed to be remodel. Alao has, however, described the demolition of the building as needless and a waste of the State’s resources. Alao, who contested gubernatorial election on the platform of AD in 2019, challenged Makinde to explain the reasons behind the demolition of the State House in Abuja and the renovation of the Governor’s Office. The AD chieftain in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday through his Media Aide, Omotayo Iyanda alleged that Makinde is “pursuing selfish unreasonable agenda.” He also challenged Makinde to explain the impact of the two projects on the economy and the people of the state. Alao stated that the reasons given by the state government for the demolition of the liaison office in Abuja was not tenable as he asked Makinde to explain why he had also embarked on the renovation of the Governor’s Office. He challenged Makinde to release the amount of money to be spent on the two projects and the source of the money. He said, “it is bewildered that the governor could suddenly demolish the Oyo State Liaison Office in Abuja and also pulled down some sections of the Governor’s Office, namely the security post, the reception and the press crew office because considering the high taste and psychedelic nature of late Senator Ajimobi, the sections being pulled down by Governor Makinde is uncalled for. “If they are not budgeted for at all, then our governor, as a “transparent” leader he has always claimed to be, should explain where he would get the funds to execute the projects or is he funding them from his personal purse as a “philanthropist” “In summary, Governor Makinde would do well to answer these questions: are those “projects” so important to the generality of the people of Oyo State? Of what direct benefits are the “projects” to the people of the state? “What impact will the “projects” have on the economy of the state? Are these the kinds of “projects” a serious government should concern itself with when people are seriously struggling to feed and survive? “Again, Your Excellency, sir, all these questions beg for answers from you!”