The presidency has said that the fight against banditry, terrorism and other forms of criminality currently ravaging the entire nation, is everybody’s business. The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, made the assertion in this week’s edition of Fridays With Adesina, titled, ‘WE ARE ALL TOGETHER’. Adesina said the insurgents do not target a particular category of persons but rather attack whoever they see whenever they strike in a targeted community. “For anybody to think that the severe security challenges facing the country are Buhari’s cup of tea, or just the business of APC, is to live in denial. “We are all together. When the kidnapper strikes, he does not know who is Muslim or Christian, who is APC or PDP, or APGA (All Progressives Grand Alliance). He just grabs his victim, and leaves sorrow, tears and blood as his regular trademark. He explained that terrorists are only interested in wreaking havoc not minding who is affected, whether APC or PDP. Adesina who described the criminal elements as evil, said it is important that Nigerians come together to fight and defeat the insurgents. He added that instead of inciting more troubles, Nigerians should encourage the government and security agencies. The presidential spokesman lauded the governors elected under the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for their recent decision to support Buhari’s government in tackling the current security issue. Adesina accused the opposition party of earlier playing politics with security, adding that they attacked the president over any glitch of security, “but last week, something happened that indicated a reawakening in the land. The Governors of the PDP met in Abuja, after which they addressed a press conference, saying they were willing to support President Muhammadu Buhari in the fight against insecurity. Impressive. “Anyone that gloats when evil happens in any part of the country is an enemy of our Union. Anyone that sponsors, supports or encourages evil is an aching tooth, which is better out than in. Nigeria must survive, but it won’t survive without all of us. We have roles to play. We are all together”.