The purported plans to recall the Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Owelle Rochas Okorocha has continued to generate controversy between the supporters of the former governor and those of the state governor, Hope Uzodinma. A political group, Orlu Political Consultative Assembly (OPOCA) alleged to be affiliated to Senator Hope Uzodinma, had initiated a legal process to recall the Senator on grounds of incompetence. But another pro-Okorocha women group from the zone, the Association of Orlu Women for Good Governance (AOWGG), accused the Uzodinma-led government of having earmarked over N1 billion for the recall process, advising the Governor to desist from such unwarranted expenditure of Imo task payers money. DAILY POST reports that the women’s group led by its National President, Mrs Bailia Chibuike advised Governor Uzodinma to face governance and stop chasing shadows. A statement she signed described the move as disgraceful to the people of the Orlu zone. She said, “the state government should take back the N1bn reported to have been given to OPOCA for the said recall and use it to pay salaries of workers and pensioners. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Imo state on Print Media, Modestus Nwamkpa, in an interview said the OPOCA group is not going back on its planned move to bring back Senator Rochas. The SSA who doubles as the National director (Publicity) of the group added that the Senator had failed to represent the zone well at the National Assembly. He said, ” Okorocha was wrong to have launched a campaign of calumny against Governor Uzodinma who is also from Orlu zone. “It is said that ‘he who obstructs the peace of the beehive should endure the pains of the bees’ stings’. The former Governor has crossed the red line and must be brought back home.” Meanwhile, youths operating under the aegis of the Imo West Youths for Good Governance (IWYGG) have demanded that the Special Adviser to Governor Hope Uzodinma on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwaneri and his Youths Affairs counterpart, Eric Uwakwe be sacked for allegedly leading thugs to attack a serving Senator. The Board of Trustees Chairman of the group, Prince Wisdom Nwauwa, in a press release, asked the Governor to hand the two aides to the police for prosecution. He said, “the recent attack on Okorocha who is a serving Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, was another sad commentary on Nigeria’s democracy.”