Femi Fani-Kayode, a former minister of aviation, on Tuesday, had his first AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine jab. Fani-Kayode had on different social media posts, condemned the vaccine and warned against what it named “Gates’ killer vaccine” and “EVIL”. He claimed that the vaccine’s purpose was part of the depopulation agenda which could kill millions of people. Sometime in April 2020, when coronavirus was declared as a pandemic, Fani-Kayode raised alarm and warned Nigerians on his official handle saying, the vaccine “will result in millions of deaths. Nigeria is trying to pass a law that will make it compulsory to take that vaccine as part of the world depopulation agenda. This is EVIL!” In the same vein, on May 2, 2020 on his Twitter post, Fani-Kayode had claimed that the said vaccine, if taken, will turn people into guinea pig. He tweeted that, “@WHO are set to begin Covid 19 vaccine trials in our country. EVIL! Not only have our people been turned into Guinea pigs to test Gates’ killer vaccine but our leaders are also passing a law which will make the use of that evil vaccine compulsory. What a mess! I weep for Nigeria.” However, the former minister of aviation has received the vaccine. On Tuesday, Fani-Kayode after taken the vaccine said, “Despite my initially strong reservations I bowed to sound logic and superior reasoning and took my COVID-19 vaccine today. “This is thanks to the counsel of my sister, the distinguished Senator Grace Bent, who convinced me to take it and who emphasised that we must set an example to others. “I also give thanks to my sister the Hon. Patricia Etteh, the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, who is the Chairman of the National Hospital where I took the shot and who not only let me eat all HER lunch in her office before the exercise took place but who also gave us a warm reception and guided us through the whole exercise. “This is a clear case of “never say never”. If anyone had told me that I would take this vaccine up until one month ago I would have said “no way”. “I am glad that I changed my mind and did so because it has brought comfort to many around me who insisted that I must stay healthy and safe at all costs.” A political commentator, Abdullahi Kebbi, while condemning the former minister, said being an opposition does not give any individual right to ignorantly confuse people. “Fani-Kayode is bewildered and with his state of the perplexing posts, instead of him to seek for more knowledge, he condemns and says things in the name of opposition or staying relevant,” he said.