There is palpable tension in Osun communities as a result of land dispute between Obaluru and Idita families of Ile-Ife, Osun State. This is as a monarch, Oba Olaposi Osunmakinde, the Obawure of Ife Tuntun accused another royal father of looting and wanton destruction of his property. The accused monarch, Oba Jimoh Ajayi, the Ologudu of Ogudu, was alleged to have led thugs to attack Oba Osunmakinde at his residence in Ile-ife on Wednesday, 24th February 2021. DAILY POST gathered that the two families have since January 2021 engaged in a ‘Cold War’ caused by a disputed land, a large expanse sector in Oke-ora, Ife East, along N.T.A, Mokuro Road, Ile-Ife. The brewing friction between the two families degenerated to open confrontation and exchange of hot words, leading to attacks and arson. Oba Osunmakinde, at a press conference in Ile-Ife on Thursday said ,” These arsonists came down to my house at Ile- Ife in about 20 motorcycles and violently looted my property and took away a gold bar worth Fifty Million Naira before setting my four houses, cars and other valuables amounting to One Hundred and Twenty Million Naira on fire. “It all started in December 2020, when a rift suddenly broke out between Obaluru family and Idita family, two revered families in this community, over land dispute. “This disputed land is a large expanse sector in Oke-ora, Ife East, along N.T.A, Mokuro Road, Ile-Ife. Unfortunately, therefore, the brewing friction between the two families degenerated to open confrontation and exchange of hot words, which compelled me to intervene. “Although, the location of the disputed land is outside my jurisdiction, I was called upon to intervene as a critical stakeholder and also by the virtue of my position as the harbinger of culture and tradition to douse tension and engender peaceful co-existence. “I succeeded in reaching amicable resolution between the two families with a conclusion that both families should partition the said expanse of land between them as a lasting solution to the fracas. “It is, therefore, pertinent to clearly state here that the Idita family was not comfortable with this arrangement and consequently connived with one Oba Jimoh Ajayi and Olaoye Adedoyin, together with some street urchins to launch attack on the disputed land with attendant maiming and intimidation, which resulted to the death of one of the men on 24th February, 2021. ”These individuals prevented officials of the Federal Fire Service from putting out the fire, they descended on them heavily and inflicted them with varying degrees of injuries.” The monarch called on all the heads of security agencies, particularly the Inspector General of Police and the Director-General of State Security Services to quickly come to his rescue as he demanded justice on the incursion and destruction of his property. In his reaction, the accused monarch, the Ologudu of Ogudu, Oba Jimoh, who spoke in Yoruba denied his involvement in the whole issue. He, however, asserted that every monarch has specific jurisdiction of authority, adding that, “Any king that engages in matters beyond his jurisdiction should face the consequences.”