The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Governors’ Forum on Thursday ruled out the defection of any of its members to the All Progressives Congress, APC. There has been defection rumour linking the PDP governors, with the APC leadership coming up at several points to claim that many PDP governors were on their way to the party. DAILY POST reports that ever since Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State left the PDP, the ruling party had continued to boast that one or two more PDP governors from the South-East would soon join its fold. Other governors, Bala Muhammed of Bauchi have also been named severally. But the governors, during a meeting at the Sokoto State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro in Abuja, said none of them was contemplating such a move. With about two years to the 2023 general elections, the PDP has continued to strategize with the hope of retaking power from the APC. The party ruled Nigeria for 16 uninterrupted years, but surprisingly lost to President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC in 2015. The defection of some PDP governors and bigwigs to the then newly formed APC was largely one of the reasons for the APC victory. With its reconciliation committee led by former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, the PDP is now working day and night to return to power. Also at the Thursday meeting, the governors resolved to support President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government in the fight against insecurity. The forum also urged the Federal Government to engage relevant stakeholders in the fight against insecurity. A communiqué after the meeting was signed by the Chairman of the forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal. The communiqué reads: “The meeting further resolved to continue to collaborate with the Federal Government to fight the scourge of insecurity bedeviling the country and urged the Government to take necessary steps to engage all major stakeholders. “States that bear the major brunt of the security challenges should be supported more by the Federal Government to secure the country. “The Forum reviewed the economic situation in the country and noted the recent increase in crude oil prices. It urged the Federal Government to use this opportunity to further diversify the economy and provide the enabling environment for Nigerians to thrive in all sectors. “The meeting also noted that no member of the PDP Governors’ Forum is contemplating leaving the party. Nigerians should ignore rumour mongers and mischief makers trying to sow seeds of disunity in the party. The party is one and there is no division in its ranks. The PDP Governors are concentrating on delivering democracy benefits to Nigerian people who elected them in various states. “We have equally set up a peer review mechanism to monitor and benchmark the laudable achievements of PDP Governors in their various states. Projects and services relevant to the lives, livelihoods and wellbeing of our people are our major pre-occupation at this time.” The meeting was attended by the following, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal – Chairman; Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia State) – Vice Chairman; Nyesom Wike (Rivers State) – Member; Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta State) – Member; Seyi Makinde (Oyo State)- Member. Others are: Godwin Obaseki (Edo State) – Member; Sen. Bala Mohammed (Bauchi State) – Member; Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu State) – Member; Sen. Duoye Diri (Bayelsa State) – Member; Sen. (Prof) Engr. Ayade Benedict (Cross Rivers State) – Member; Gov. Samuel Ioraer Ortom (Benue State) – Member; Gov. Bello Mattawale Maradun (Zamfara State) – Member; Crowther Seth (Deputy Governor-Adamawa) – Member. Also in attendance was PDP’s National Working Committee (NWC) which received an interim Report of the party’s Reconciliation Committee.