The Nigerian Navy on Wednesday released the list of successful candidates for Direct Short Service Commission (DSSC) Course 28. The Service called on applicants who sat for its Direct Short Service Commission (DSSC) Course 28 Aptitude Selection Board interview held at Nigerian Navy Secondary School, Ojo, Lagos State between 16 December 2020 and 4 January 2021 to check on its website https://joinnigeriannavy.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/DSSC-28.pdf
for the list of successful candidates. The candidates whose names appear are to report for training at the Nigerian Naval College, Onne, Port Harcourt on Wednesday 24 March 2021 from 0800 (8am). Navy warned that Candidates who fail to report by 6pm on Saturday 27 March 2021 will not be accepted for training. Part of the statement read: “All Candidates are to come along with the following: a. Original and photocopies of: (1) Duly completed registration form. (2) National Identity Card (acknowledgment slip admissible). (3) First School Leaving Certificate (4) Senior Secondary School Certificate (WAEC, NECO, etc). (5) Certificates from tertiary institutions. (6) Certificate of registration with professional bodies (as applicable). (7) Federal Ministry of Education authentication of foreign certificates. (8) NYSC Discharge/Exemption Certificate. (9) Birth Certificate/Declaration of Age. (10) Certificate of Local Government of origin. (11) Two (2) recent coloured passport-size photographs. (12) COVID 19 test result obtained not more than 48 hours prior to
reporting at the College. b. Two pairs of white shorts. c. Two pairs of white trousers. d. Two pairs of white round neck t-shirts (unmarked). e. One pair of black trousers. f. One black belt. g. Two white long sleeved shirts and 2 white polo shirts. h. Two pairs of blue shorts and white vests (singlets). i. A pair of national dress (white kaftan for Juma’at). j. Two pairs of white socks. k. Two pairs of white canvas shoes. l. One black lounge suit. m. One pair of black cover shoes. n. Black polish, brushes, shaving kit and toiletries. o. Two white bed sheets and pillow cases for 3 x 6 bed. p. Five sets of white washable face masks. q. Ten bottles of hand sanitizers. r. A treated mosquito net. s. A white towel. Also female candidates have been instructed to come along with the following items in
addition: (1) Two pairs of trouser suits. (2) Two long black skirts. (3) One pair of black low-heeled cover shoes. (4) Two pairs of black or blue short tights. (5) Other Sanitary wears.”