The leadership of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Enugu State chapter, on Tuesday paid a condolence visit to its major financier in the State, Emperor Baywood Ibe over the demise of his brother. DAILY POST reports that the party’s delegation, led by its chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye welcomed Ibe at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, from where they headed to his country home in Awgu Local Government Area. At Awgu, Nwoye was represented by Comrade Adolphus Ude, the Chairman of the APC Contact and Mobilization Committee, and coordinator, G34, APC Youths Enugu State. On the entourage were the Women leader of the Enugu APC Contact and Mobilization Committee, Lolo Queen Nwankwo, some members of the State Executive Committee of the party, and members of the G34 APC Enugu State, among others. Speaking, Ude described Ibe as a pillar of support for the ruling party, and noted that it was necessary that they came to identify with him in his moment of grief. “We are not here for politics today; we are here to let you know that we share in your grief; the death of your brother and his mother is one that affected us too, because whatever affects you, affects us. “We are here to show our sympathy over the loss; you remain our leader, our main financier in Enugu State. So, may we also use this opportunity to thank you for your rare kind of support to the APC in Enugu State. “We pray that God will give you the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss,” Ude said. In a response, Ibe expressed surprise over the number of people on the entourage, noting that it was a source of strength to him. “I’m so much surprised and encouraged by the number of people on this delegation; the death of my brother is one that hit me so hard because we were too close. So, I thank you so much for identifying with me at this moment. “On the issue of party, today is not a day of politics but let me say here that if we want to achieve anything in the party, we must first begin to tell ourselves the truth; there is so much deceit and lies in politics. “Let’s go back to our LGAs and zones and play the game with truth; people like me, I am almost losing hope in the process, but I will speak at the appropriate time,” he stated.