Anyone caught sexually harassing students or staff members of the Osun State University (UNIOSUN) will now have to face the full wrath of the law as the university will not hesitate to deal with those caught in the act. The warning is coming from the UNIOSUN Governing Council Chairman, Yusuf Ali, during a five-day training workshop for members of staff and students of the University on the menace of sexual harassment and ways to proactively guard against it. He warned everyone to be careful to avoid the shameless act and advised victims of sexual harassment to report such cases to the appropriate authority or visit the school’s counselling unit for guidance. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Labode Popoola who was represented by Prof. Anthony Kola-Olusanya, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academic, Research, Innovation and Partnership in his submission noted that sexual harassments in Nigerian tertiary Institutions was becoming rampant and growing daily. “Based on the development, the University Governing Council set up the Prof. Abiodun Alao led committee and charged it to proactively organise enlightenment training workshops for the staff and students”. Prof. Alao on his part said the training became relevant because the staff and students needed to know their right, whom they need to speak to if they become victims, the steps they need to take and how they can be free from such harassments. “The Sexual harassment training workshop committee under my watch has developed a sexual harassment guidance note for staff and students which we are currently sharing and we have also carefully selected three guest speakers who are professionals in this field to educate and inform our staff and students on the current situation, what can be done and way forward”, he said. A guest speaker, Ibukunoluwa Otesile, explained that physical attributes were neither requirements for admission nor a basis to succeed in the University adding that staff and students were not supposed to be bullied or lured into any activity that is different from the main reason why they were in the University. She disclosed that “Staff and students can be harassed through starring or leered at sexually, deliberately brushing against someone as you walk past, making promises or threats in return for sexual favours, sending unsolicited sexually explicit emails, SMS, sexually insults or taunting. “Standing deliberately too close to someone, displaying pornographic or sexually explicit material among others. “The university is telling you now to speak up and say no to sexual harassment”, she added.