Total Health Trust (THT), Nigeria’s leading Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) again demonstrated its commitment towards empowering vulnerable primary school children in Lagos State. This was achieved through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities with an awareness campaign on the importance of living a healthy life style as well as encouraging a sense of discipline towards a healthier nation. The THT community outreach project targeted at children with special needs resumed at the Ojuwoye community Inclusive Primary School at Mushin Local government Area with the donation of food items and learning instruments to support the teachers in their duties and also bridge health literacy gap and inclusion for children in Nigeria.  Commenting on the initiative, Dr. Chinyeaka Aguboshim, Head, Provider Management at THT noted that, “As a health insurance organization focused on making Nigeria better, we see that these children with special needs require all the love and support they can get to be part of our world, and this purpose needs to be inclusive of all towards a healthier nation.” Dr. Chinyeaka noted that “Our decision to adopt this school is borne out of the need to contribute directly to our host community especially to the neediest areas of the local government around education. “Our presence today is an attestation to this fact and we are using this to remind every organization that we need to be active in our inclusion of everyone towards a healthy Nigeria.” She noted.  In her appreciation remarks, Mrs. Omotunde Morufat Omolaye, head Inclusive Special Unit, Ojuwoye Community Primary School, Mushin, said “THT has been very supportive and have become a regular partner with the school. “The donations received from THT have helped in no small measures and we implore other organizations and individuals to follow in the footstep of THT in making these children with special needs happy.” She noted. About Total Health Trust (THT) Total Health Trust (THT), a member of the Liberty Group, is a proudly Nigerian company with a pan-African footprint working to make Nigeria healthier. We are the leading Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) dedicated to serving SMEs, corporates, and multinationals in Nigeria. With a demonstrated track record of providing affordable and reliable healthcare services and solutions for more than 18 years; we understand healthcare and know the needs of those we serve.