Oyo State Police Command has arrested a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State. DAILY POST gathered on Thursday that a stalwart of PDP in Ibarapa geopolitical zone, Pa Olawuwo was arrested in connection with the murder of another party chieftain, Dr. Fatai Aborode. Aborode was killed in December, while coming from his farm in Iganga, a town in Ibarapa North Local Government of the State. Though, the Oyo State Police command confirmed the killing of Aborode, our correspondent, however, gathered that the death of Aborode who came to settle in his home town to establish a commercial farm after spending some years overseas had attracted several reactions. DAILY POST gathered that the state Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde had earlier said that the killing of Aborode was political as against the belief in some quarters that the deceased was killed by some suspected Fulani herdsmen. Makinde who spoke at a Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS) live program in February, said that his interaction with the father of the deceased revealed that it was not the Fulani herdsmen that killed the deceased, saying that the killing was political. The State Police Command has, however, arrested one of the chieftains of the party, Olawuwo for alleged involvement in the murder of the party stalwart. DAILY POST gathered on Thursday that Olawuwo was arrested and detained at the former SARS office located at Dugbe in Ibadan. Our correspondent learnt that some of the party chieftains from Ibarapa Central and Ibarapa North Local Government Areas among whom are Alhaji Yisau, a former caretaker Chairman, Iliasu Ololade and Mr Obey from Igboora were at the former SARS office to see the party chieftain who was still in police custody as at Thursday. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi when contacted confirmed the arrest to DAILY POST. Fadeyi told DAILY POST that the PDP chieftain was arrested and has been charged to court. He further disclosed that the suspect is still in Police custody. Fadeyi said, “Yes, he was charged to court and remanded in police custody.”