Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has requested the Federal Government to open the international wing of Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA). He made the request when he visited Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika in his office, Abuja, Tuesday, explaining that the continued non-commissioning of the international wing, would not augur well for the State. “On behalf of the government and people of Kano State, I am urging the federal government to kindly consider the immediate commissioning of the expanded section of International Wing of Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA),” he pleaded. He also urged for the resumption of international flights to operate in Kano, adding that, “As the COVID-19 debut forced for the closure of Airports across the country, which also included Malam Aminu Kano International Airport, we are urging for the opening of our expanded International Wing. We are very grateful for the uplift of the international wing.” Responding, the Minister, Sirika assured that the uplifted international wing would be commissioned soon. “Very soon the international wing of Malam Aminu Kano International will be commissioned. I am also from Kano, Your Excellency. Kano is my State also. I, therefore, urge Kano people to cooperate well in this direction,” he assured. At the Ministry of Industries, Trade and Investment, governor Ganduje met with the Minister, Mr Otumba Niyi Adebayo and State Minister, Mrs Maryam Yalwaji Katagum. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the developmental projects the federal government executed in Kano, explaining that, “Such and similar projects are drivers for our state economy. More economic development will be possible with such gigantic projects.” “His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari’s show of love to Kano and the country in general, is one of the major reasons we are witnessing progress and development in the State. We are grateful with the Dry Port project and rail projects from many parts, that are also linked to our dear state, Kano. So also the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas project, ” he appreciated. All those projects, according to the governor, would help in boosting the economy of the state, insisting that, “We are urging the federal government to uplift our Trade Fair ground to comply with the global outlook.” After putting the request, the Minister agreed that federal government would look into the request and act appropriately. While at the Ministry for Communication and Digital Economy, the governor commended the good working relationship between the state government and the Ministry in developing the state, while complying with IT-based initiatives. On that basis, according to the governor, “Kano state is soliciting for effective partnership in the areas of digital infrastructure, digital agriculture, capacity development, eGovernance, digital skills and digital literacy. All these areas will augur well for the socio-economic development of our state.” While appreciating the good working relationship between his Ministry and the state government under governor Ganduje, the Minister, Ibrahim Ali Pantami, assured the governor and his entourage that he would respond positively to the governor’s requests.