Mrs Betty Ann Blaine, a leading advocate and an activist in Jamaica, has called on like-minded people, organizations and governments to unite in one accord and wage a war against the imposition of a secular world-view on Judeo-Christian belief systems and way of life. Mrs Blaine, a former university lecturer and leader in the country’s Anti-Apartheid Movement, said she is all out with other like-minded people in Africa (especially Nigeria), Jamaica and Caribbean to fight on the side of Christians to uphold the Biblical tenets against some policies of political world leaders such as the aggressive LGBTQ and Abortion ideologies and agendas. In an exclusive interview with DAILY POST, Mrs. Blaine, a spokesperson on black history in Africa and the Diaspora, listed some of these similar concerns and threats Nigeria, the African Continent, the Caribbean and the Christian world face. She vowed to urgently rally like-minded people, organizations and governments to unite in one accord to challenge what she described as ‘clear and present danger’ to our belief systems and way of life. Highlighting the danger and threats posed to Africa and the Caribbean, Blaine said, “As a Child Advocate and a pro-family, Christian activist, I recognize the following common threats Nigeria, the African Continent, the Caribbean and the Christian world face: “The aggressive LGBTQ and Abortion ideologies and agendas dictating that we must agree with same-sex and pro-choice lifestyles and positions. “The affront to the traditional values countries like Jamaica and Nigeria embrace and live by – values that are pro-God, pro-life and pro-family. “The increasing indoctrination of children as young as five and six years old (kindergarteners) about sexual orientation, and doing this through sex-ed curricula, language, children story books, etc. “The ever-deepening and expanding transgender ideology and the attendant implications for the wellbeing and welfare of children, e,g, puberty blocking drugs and gender-altering surgeries. “The steady assault and disregard for our Judeo-Christian world-view and traditions.” “The attacks on Parental Rights – the rights of parents to educate, socialize and control the sexual education of their children, and decisions about radical surgical procedures and drugs.”