A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze has reacted to the Supreme Court judgement which affirmed Mr. Isaac Abbot-Ogbogbula, Chairman of the APC in Rivers State. DAILY POST reports that the apex Court in a judgement read by Amina Adamu Augie, JSC, upheld the ruling of the Appeal Court and declared Isaac Abbot-Ogbogbula, Chairman of the APC in Rivers State following his appointment by the national leadership of the party. Justice Augie on Igo Aguma v All Progressives Congress & 2 Ors (SC.17/2021) resolved that the decision of the trial court presided over by Justice George Omereji, (rtd) of the Rivers State High Court was out of place because the court lacked the jurisdiction to hear the matter. “A political party is Supreme over its affairs. The Appeal is meritorious. Onuoha v. Okafor; A party is like a club with voluntary membership to be so bound by its own rules. The issue of leadership is an internal domestic affair and the jurisdiction of the Court is ousted. The subject matter of the Appeal is not justiciable. The Appeal is struck out,” the court declared. While reacting, the APC chieftain, Chukwuemwka Eze, in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Friday, said the judgement clearly represented an appreciable degree of sensitive regard for fairness, justice and respect for the rule of law which have suffered incredible defeats before the Rivers State Judiciary, hoodwinked by Governor Nyesom Wike. The former PDP National spokesman noted with gladness that all the judgements against Rivers State APC by Justice Omeriji and other judges were thrown out by the supreme court thereby exposing the Rivers State Judiciary as a political supermarket that is managed by the State government. According to him, “With these rulings, the Rivers State Judiciary should purge herself of this unwarranted and disgraceful image it has earned and distance herself from unnecessary politicking of issues involving APC in the state forthwith and adhere to the counsel of the supreme court about the kind of judgements they give in Rivers State. “With party men and people of goodwill clinking glasses and picking blueberries at the pools over the verdicts, Justice has manifestly been seen to be done on the matters. The Supreme Court has laid to rest all speculations and uncertainties about the fate of the progressives party in the state and especially, the fortunes of Rivers people who have borne the brunt of the excruciating effects of the long judicial rigmaroles for which Senator Abe, Igo Aguma and their conspirators were responsible. “I commend Supreme Court for helping to fumigate the APC against cankerworms, caterpillars and rodents including flying, creeping, biting and sucking insects which have inflicted pains and agony on the larger society”. The APC Chieftain also expressed gladness over the ruling of the Court of Appeal, which granted a Stay of Execution in the Order given by Justice Ben Whyte, which restrained the Rivers APC from participating in the ongoing nationwide membership registration and Revalidation Exercise. Eze, however, congratulated the leadership, executive and members of the Rivers APC, for successfully sailing through the turbulent waters of legal mechanics and acrobatics and landing safely on the Canaan side.