Notwithstanding, the enforcement of the COVID-19 guidelines by the Osun State Government, many residents of Osogbo have continued to flout laid down regulations. As visits to some public institutions reveal, most members of the public have thrown caution to the wind, going about their business without precaution and acting as though COVID-19 does not exist. DAILY POST reports that the use of facemasks, use of hand sanitisers and handwashing with running water have been relegated to the background. It was observed that in some banks, malls, markets, bars and restaurants protective measures have been abandoned as management of these places no longer enforce COVID-19 guidelines. Other culprits are transporters especially minibuses popularly called ‘Korope’ where passengers still cram themselves in, disregarding the social distancing rules without facemasks. An angry bank customer, Olaniyi Seye who spoke to our reporter warned that the carelessness of people towards the virus means that some Nigerians were very insensible and that such behaviour was reckless. He revealed that if left unchecked, it would hamper the efforts of relevant health agencies in combating the global pandemic. Another respondent, Madam Bimbo explained that most residents of the state do not concern themselves with the COVID-19 statistics. She said that in as much as they have not been infected, they go about their daily activities unperturbed. She said what most people do not know is that some COVID-19 infected people may be asymptomatic and they will transmit the infection to people unknowingly. According to her, “most of the COVID-19 infections recorded in the state were as a result of ignorance. Most of them will look at the physical state of the person and just conclude that they are free of the infection meanwhile they may be highly infections, though there may be no display of symptoms of the virus at all. “Only a test can declare a person to have it and also free from it and not by physically looking at someone. Also, we just have to increase our vigilance”, she added.