A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Igo Aguma, who was declared the Interim Chairman of the APC by a Rivers State High Court has resigned his membership of the party. Aguma in a statement obtained by DAILY POST said he cannot continue to remain in APC in good conscience. He stated that his decision to leave the party is premised on his political future. “I have received the Supreme Court judgement which dismissed my Appeal challenging the Court of Appeal’s decision which upturned the High Court judgement that declared me as Acting Chairman of APC in Rivers State. “It is now clear that it is not within the purview of the Court to protect the rights and privileges of members of a political party, in this case, the APC. It is the APC that should protect the rights of her members but has failed to do so. “I cannot continue to be a member of a political party that endangers and does not give any form of protection to the rights of its members and has no respect whatsoever for its own constitution at all but chooses to be run against democratic principles for self-destructive purposes. “Therefore, I announce my exit from the All Progressives Congress immediately. To God be the glory.” Livingstone Wechie, also a member of the Magnus Abe-led faction of the APC in a personal statement, say “I see this development as an unhealthy judicial precedent which should be intellectually interrogated moving forward. Also, it is dangerous for politics and political party democracy in Nigeria that for any reason, the jurisdiction of the court should be ultimately ousted as it affects grievances by party members not minding political party’s arbitrariness which the court ought to restrict in the interest of our democracy in Nigeria. “Regrettably, the APC that preaches respect for the rule of Law rather than protect the said rights of her members as enshrined has failed to do so and celebrates the violation of its own constitution traditionally. “Therefore, I announce my exit from the All Progressives Congress immediately. This is my decision,” Wechie said.