Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., the National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, CAGG, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to honourably resign as Nigeria’s President. According to Bamgbose, the services of the President are no longer needed by Nigerians since he cannot as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, guarantee their safety. Bamgbose was reacting to the recent abduction of 39 students from the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation in Afaka, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The gunmen have since released several videos showing the abducted students being maltreated as they beg the governments to pay the N500m ransom being demanded by the criminals. Parents of the students had also confirmed that the abductors have reached out and are demanding the sum of N500 million. For Bamgbose, a frontline lawyer, the most recent abduction has shown clearly that Buhari may not be in the best position to help Nigeria get out of this security ‘mess.’ In one of the videos, the students are being beaten and Bamgbose described this as odious and outrageous, adding that the nation is in a serious mess. “Banditry has now become a lucrative criminal venture under our President, retired Major General Muhammadu Buhari,” Bamgbose said. “This is so sad. Unknown to many Nigerians, many unemployed Northern youths are now joining the bandits to sustain life, some have become informants. “This is so disheartening. It’s becoming obvious that banditry is almost destabilizing Buhari’s administration. “Where are we really heading to? How did we get here? The ugly situation is getting worse by the day. “It has become a daily affair of one abduction or the other. Could it be that this government cannot crush banditry? “I think it’s high time Buhari honourably resigned if he can’t handle the situation any more. “Assurances without any visible change is tantamount to scamming Nigerians. It’s becoming obvious that Nigerians no longer need the services of Buhari. We can’t continue this way. “I urge Nigerians to pray for God’s intervention. I seriously doubt if Buhari can handle the situation at hand. The government has been overwhelmed. “Let me, however, warn seriously the sponsors of these criminals that their days are numbered. Divine judgment is inevitable and it will be soon.”