Five applicants, including a disengaged teacher, were on Monday, arrested in Ilorin for presenting fake NCE certificates at the ongoing screening for the Kwara State teachers’ recruitment exercise. While the applicants were handed over to security agencies for further investigations, a number of other jittery applicants fled the centre of the interview for fear of being caught over result counterfeiting. The arrested applicants are Tanu Suleiman, Mohammed Ismail, Mohammed Abubakar, Ibrahim M. Salihu, all from Baruten local government area and Abdulrazaq Abdulakeem from Asa local government area of the State. Suleiman, Ismail and Abubakar, were caught with fake NCE certificates from Kwara State College of Education, (Technical) Lafiagi, in the Edu Local Government Area, while the duo of Salihu and Abdulakeem were caught with fake certificates from Kwara State College of Education, Oro, in the Irepodun Local Government Area of the state. The arrests, according to a statement in Ilorin, by the Press Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Yakubu Ali Agan, were effected as the government commenced the result verification/interview phase of the teachers’ recruitment exercise on Monday. Applicants had been mandated to come to the venue of the interview with the original and photocopies of their certificates and result checkers (scratch cards) for ‘O’ levels. The statement further announced that applicants from Ilorin South, Isin, Oke-Ero and Ekiti, who had earlier been scheduled to appear for interview and result verification on Tuesday, March 16, have had their turn rescheduled for Monday, March 22, 2021. “This is due to the fact that the Monday exercise started a bit behind schedule, so the panels were only able to interview applicants from Asa and Baruten local government areas. “Therefore, applicants from Edu and Patigi, will now be attended to on Tuesday March 16. “The government regrets the inconveniences this may cause to everyone involved,” the statement added. It further explained that applicants for TESCOM interview/result verification, will now start next Tuesday, March 23,2021, instead of March 22. A total of 9,991 applicants hit the cut-offs in the two categories of the recruitment exercise thereby qualifying them for the results verification and interview stage of the process. The figures comprise 5,116 SUBEB applicants and 4,875 TESCOM applicants.