About 2000 persons have been vaccinated in Ekiti State since the commencement of the COVID-19 inoculation exercise across the 16 local government areas of the state.

The state government made the disclosure at a COVID-19 sensitization program organized by the Ekiti State Risk Communication and Compliance Monitoring exercise Team. The Focal Person, Risks Communication and Compliance Monitoring Exercise Taskforce, Dr. Jimlas Ogunsakin said the first phase of the exercise was for the frontline workers, advising others to register at the various designated centres for their jabs. Participants at the programme commended the state government for its continuous sensitization to correct the various lies about the AstraZeneca vaccines. The participants comprising religious leaders from all local government areas of the state promised to take the message home to their followers. The chairman, COVID-19 taskforce committee, Prof.Bolaji Aluko assured residents that the state government will not relent at prioritizing the welfare of residents. Prof. Aluko explained that the state will use the advocacy period to further impress on the minds of Ekiti people that the vaccines are safe and hope that with governments aggressive efforts, that people will come out to receive the doses. He affirmed that millions of people across the globe have been vaccinated and reports and research have shown that none of them has been affected in any way and submitted that the benefits involved in taking the vaccines outweigh the risks of denying one of the governments’ gesture. Speaking during the technical session, Ogunsakin explained that the team recognizes the pivotal roles religious leaders play in shaping society hence, the essence of having a roundtable talk with them for adequate dissemination of the true nature of the vaccine. He attributed the timely production of the vaccines which has been a contending factor contributing to the spread of unverified claims to technological advancement and that government had already procured mobile solar devices to maintain the manufacturing temperature of the vaccines which has already been distributed to the local governments. Ogunsakin assured that the doses sent to the state are potent and non-injurious to human health. The focal person revealed that he has taken the vaccines alongside other Ekiti state top Government officials some weeks ago and all of them are still alive and kicking and urged the people to shun the various lies making the rounds on the vaccines. Ogunsakin explained that the vaccines have been certified human-friendly and assured them that the vaccines can not kill them. The Ekiti State Deputy Director, Public Health from the state’s ministry of health, Dr. Olumide Obe while giving his remarks explained that there was a need for all and sundry to still maintain the safety precautions like regular handwashing and sanitisers, social distancing and proper use of the facemasks. He acknowledged that the state governments efforts during the first phase of the virus have been responsible for the great success that the state is now witnessing but urged that the protocols still be maintained to avoid further spread. He however urged the public to disregard insinuations and the unverified claims flying around about the vaccines. The one-day COVID-19 sensitization program of religious leaders in the 16 local government areas of the state is the latest on governments efforts at ridding the state of the virus with the assurance that it is safe for human.