Abia State Government has debunked reports that Abia is among states that were yet to implement the new minimum wage. The state’s Honorable Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi Kalu, made this known in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Saturday. Kalu said that the Abia State Government led by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, commenced implementation of the new minimum wage in January 2020 with the least paid worker in the state workforce earning above the minimum wage of N30,000. According to him, Abia State is the first in the southeast region to have commenced payment of the new minimum wage to workers. He further urged the national leadership of NLC and The Guardian to immediately verify and correct the misrepresentation of facts and apologize to the government and people of Abia State for the incorrect publication “Our attention has been drawn to a publication in a national daily of Saturday, 13th March, 2021 which cited a document purportedly obtained from the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and corroborated by the Deputy General Secretary of NLC, Bello Ismail, to the effect that Abia State is among states that are yet to implement the new minimum wage and wish to state that the report is false and without bearing to facts as it concerns our state. “Abia State Government led by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, PhD, commenced implementation of the new minimum wage in January 2020 with the least paid worker in the state workforce earning above the minimum wage of N30,000. “Indeed, the state is the first in the southeast region to have commenced payment of the new minimum wage to workers. We are therefore lost as to how the national leadership of NLC is not aware of this fact which is verifiable and available within the media space including previous publications by The Guardian. “The least expected from the national leadership of NLC, before relying, compiling and publishing from the cited document on the status of the state with regard to the payment of the new minimum wage was to have called or cross checked with the local chapter of NLC or any state worker to verify the status. “We hereby urge the national leadership of NLC and The Guardian to immediately verify and correct the misrepresentation of facts and equally apologize to the government and people of Abia State for the false publication,”the statement said.