The Kwara State Police Command, on Wednesday, confirmed the abduction of three farm workers in Asa Local Government Area of the state. Spokesman of the command, SP Okasanmi Ajayi, who confirmed the development, said the Police Commissioner, Mohammed Lawal Bagega, had directed officers and men of the command, to swing into action towards eventual release of the kidnapped victims. He assured that the kidnappers would soon be apprehended and the victims released to their families. Reports reaching DAILY POST in Ilorin, said six heavily armed suspected kidnappers on Monday, stormed a poultry farm at Pampo community, in the local government area and initially abducted two workers. On their way out of the community, the kidnappers abducted the third worker in another farm. The incident occurred at about 4p.m on Monday in a location along Eyenkorin/Afon/Ogele road in the local government area. The kidnappers, dressed in army uniform, reportedly shot repeatedly into the air when they stormed the farm in Hilux van. They overpowered the chief security officer in the farm and locked him up inside a room before taking the two farm workers away. The third worker, was also abducted at a second farm, Mirola farms, on their way out of the community. The kidnappers contacted the farm owners demanding ransom of N45m for the three abducted workers, representing N15m per head. DAILY POST learnt that the victims comprising two men and a woman, were kidnapped in the operation carried out by suspected Yoruba speaking Fulani bandits. In his account of the incident, the farm owner, said, ” On Monday, at 4.30pm, six suspected kidnappers in military uniform, heavily armed with AK-47 rifles abducted three farm managers in our farms. “They took two managers and on their way out of the first farm, they branched my farm to take my own farm manager too, making three people kidnapped, two males and one female.” He said the matter had been reported to the police, while the police intelligence unit had even discovered that the kidnap suspects, were still within a location in Lasoju community in the local government area.