The Oyo State Police command has declared that it has arrested some members of the Odua Peoples Congress (OPC) in connection with the earlier arrest of Isikilu Wakili. DAILY POST recalls that Wakili, a Fulani herdsman was accused of terrorising residents of Ibarapa geo-political zone of the state. Our correspondent gathered that after a series of alleged attacks on residents by Wakili, some members of Odua Peoples Congress (OPC) on Sunday arrested the suspect. The suspect was later handed over to the police. The Public Relations Officer of the state police command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi, confirmed that Wakili was still in Police custody in an interview with DAILY POST earlier on Sunday. The command has, however, said that some of the OPC members have been arrested in connection with the arrest of Wakili. Fadeyi, who confirmed the arrest of the OPC members, noted that the OPC members were still in police custody as at the time of filing this report on Sunday night. He also confirmed that two other people were arrested along with Wakili. Fadeyi noted that the OPC members invaded Wakili’s residence and allegedly killed one person. He alleged that the OPC members were arrested for setting ablaze Wakili’s residence and killing one person. He also added that the OPC members also set Wakili’s house ablaze. Fadeyi added that anybody that has any case against Wakili should report it to the State Criminal Investigation Department, (CID) Iyaganku Ibadan. He added that this is to ensure discreet Investigation. He added that the prime suspect, Wakili has been taken to an hospital due to his health condition. Fadeyi in a statement made available to DAILY POST Sunday evening said, “The Oyo State Police Command would like to inform the general public that at about 0900 hrs of date (7th March 2021), information was received that a group of persons, (later found out to be members of the Odua Peoples Congress- OPC), had invaded Kajola community in Ibarapa axis of the State. “The invasion was reportedly aimed at arresting one Wakili, a Fulani by tribe, who is alleged to be the sponsor and mastermind of various criminal attacks against the people/farmers of Yoruba origin in the community. “The State Commissioner of Police has quickly moved into action and preliminary findings revealed that some OPC members went to Kajola community in Ibarapa North Local government Area of Oyo State. “While there, the house of the Wakili in question was set ablaze, while a female (the identity of who is yet to be ascertained) was burnt in the fire and Wakili (about 75 years old and blind) with two (2) other persons were picked up. “The three of them are presently in the custody of the Police. “The Commissioner of Police has directed that Wakili (due to his frail appearance and state of health), be moved to the Hospital, while others are being interrogated. Others being interrogated are the OPC members, involved in arson and murder.”