The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has arrested no fewer than 15 commercial sex workers in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. DAILY POST gathered that the commercial sex workers were arrested by the Oyo State command of NSCDC during three separate operations. Our correspondent gathered that eight of the commercial sex workers were arrested on Monday, two were arrested on Wednesday, while about five were arrested on Friday. DAILY POST reliably gathered on Saturday that the commercial sex workers, also known as “Olosho” were arrested following a complaint by owner of a club located at Bodija area of Ibadan. Our correspondent gathered that the owner of the club had complained to NSCDC that the Olosho who are staying outside were ‘killing the business’ for the ones inside that paid. NSCDC officials swung into action and began a clampdown on the Olosho who were staying outside. In the three operations, 15 of the them were arrested, DAILY POST gathered. An eyewitness narrated his experience on Friday that the Olosho were arrested around 9.30 pm. “Just being curious, I want to ask a question. Is it also the official responsibility of Civil Defence Officers to arrest Olosho. I kept a bit night outside today and had to drive through Awolowo Avenue at Bodija around 9.30pm, where I saw these Civil Defence officers with guns arresting those runs ladies and forced them into their official bus.” An official of NSCDC who asked not to be named told DAILY POST on Saturday that those arrested on Monday and Wednesday had been released. He said, “The owner of Platinum Arena reported the Olosho to the Command of NSCDC that those staying outside were killing the business for the ones inside that paid. “I am sure those who were arrested on Monday late hour were released after the Imam and Chaplain of the Command preached for them. They were 8 on that day. Another 2 on Wednesday and were released after the two men of God preached to them.” The Public Relations Officer of NSCDC in the state, Mr. Olusegun Oluwole, when contacted confirmed the arrest of the “Olosho”. Oluwole, however, noted that the commercial sex workers were arrested following petition from the community that the commercial sex workers were constituting nuisance in the area. “We received a petition from members of that community that they were constituting nuisance in their area. Our duty is to maintain law and order. They are constituting nuisance as armed robbers use them as shield to carry out their nefarious activities. “That location use to be congested with traffic when they are soliciting for customers. People’s bags and valuable items have been snatched from them at that location. Hence the need to restore sanity to the area. Those arrested were cautioned, counseled and released, the Christian among them were counseled by a social worker and command chaplain, while the Muslim were counseled by a social worker and command Imam.”