The Women Aid Collective, WACOL, has urged for more inclusion of women in the decision making process. WACOL, a leading organization championing the rights of women and other vulnerable members of the society is unrelenting in its push against gender-based violence, even as it pursues economic justice and empowerment for women. Speaking in Enugu during a consultative meeting organized in collaboration with Action Aid, the founder and director of WACOL, Prof. Joy Ngozi Ezeilo said women deserved more than their present position in the scheme of things. Ezeilo, represented by the programme manager on CBOs engagement, Mrs. Anuli Ezennia said the group was building the capacity of women with a view to reducing gender-based violence in the communities. “The capacity building we are talking about involves also the training of these community-based organisations so they can take it to other women at the grassroots level. “We want to support and train our women, we want to see them participate actively in politics, women and girls should know about human rights on sexual and gender-based violence so that they can easily report to the appropriate authority if such a thing happens to them and not to hide it. “We want our women to be economically empowered, because an idle man is the devil’s workshop. If a woman is busy, some of these gender based violence will drop entirely,” she stated. In a presentation, the programme officer for Women Voice and Leadership Project (WVL) Mr. Onyekachukwu Ugwu said the objective of the training was to have an increased awareness on human rights by women and girls. “We are working with about 100 CBOs in Nigeria and through this training, we intend to strengthen their system and processes so that they can be sustained. “Our expectation is to see women both our mothers, wives, sisters come on board because we cannot really build a nation without women,” he said. A member of one of the CBOs, Lolo Eze Eucharia, who spoke after the training said, “I thank the organizers of this event, the WACOL in collaboration with Action Aid; this programme has brought a great change and improvement in the lives of our women. “Our women now know that they are part and parcel of the decision makers in the community, they have also realised that gender-based violence and sexual violence like rape and defilement are crime punishable under the law and should be reported immediately. “We laud the WACOL and its collaborators for taking it upon themselves to see that women are given their space in the society,” she said.