The 32nd Enugu International Trade Fair would commence this Friday, March 19, 2021, with no less than 100 exhibitors. This was announced by the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture.l, ECCIMA. President of the Chamber, Mr. Emeka Nwandu, at a media briefing, said the fair would hold from Friday 19th-Monday 29th March, 2021. Nwandu said the theme of this year’s fair: “Promoting New Technologies, Business ideas and strategies for Rapid Economic Growth and development in Nigeria”, is geared towards providing the cleavage to gauge the economic outlook of the nation. On the expected number of participants, he said: “over 100 exhibitors have indicated interest at the last count. We are still updating the figure. “We are optimistic that there shall be many foreign exhibitors; we have some of them already, including Brazil.” “It is, therefore, with satisfaction that I let you know that the chamber is making appreciable progress to ensure that the fair is successfully held to the satisfaction of all stakeholders. “Even though we are still battling with some aforementioned ugly situations such as the second wave of Covid-19 , we still need to be positive about our economic affairs because the economy remains the fulcrum of our survival, growth and development,” he added. Nwandu assured that a lot of strategies had been put in place by the chamber towards ensuring strict observances of Covid-19 protocol. He stated that other highlights of this year’s trade fair would be to “enhance cutting-edge online platform for participants registration, deepening the use of the social media as a marketing mix to reinforce our environment media publicity and outreach in promoting the fair, boosting technological advancement by encouraging the participation of researchers, innovators and creative thinkers as a nexus towards commercialization of research finding, including robust indulgence in digital space. “The fair would also get more credence and attention towards boosting the agriculture sector and particularly commercial farming for the much needed job creation and food security with the attendant linkages and value chain benefits through processing of raw materials/Agro Allied Industries.” According to the ECCIMA President, the fair would be declared open by Nigeria’s Minister of the State for Industry, Trade and Investment on Friday.