Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has urged Nigerians to make it a priority to end what he called the crisis of division. Makinde made this call during the inauguration of the 8th President of Christ Apostolic Church Worldwide, Pastor Samuel Oladele. The event was held at All Saints Chapel, C.A.C. General Secretariat, Bashorun, Ibadan on Saturday. It was attended by Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented by Chaplain of Aso Rock, Rev. Seyi Malomo, Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu in attendance
Akeredolu and Chief of Staff to the governor of Osun State, Dr. Charles Akinola, who represented his boss, Gboyega Oyetola. Makinde while speaking said Nigeria needs to reconcile with the rest of the world. He enjoined politicians to learn from the transition model of the Christ Apostolic Church, which, he said, is rancour-free. He said that he was ready to make the difference in Oyo State to hand over to his successor, noting that since the start of the Fourth Republic in 1999, no Governor has attended the inauguration of his successor. He said “The Chairman of the South West Governors picked something from the citation of the 8th President of the CAC Worldwide and he mentioned that his (new president’s) priority is to end the crisis of division that has plagued the church for 30 years. “I am reading the same thing from a different angle. Our country is at the crossroads right now: the issues of insecurity, banditry, ethnic clashes everywhere. “And we know that the leadership of the church or political leaders did not drop from heaven as we are also from this society. “So, if we are at a crossroads and the new president has said his priority is to end the crisis of division, I think as a nation and people, we, also, from this day, should make it a priority to end the crisis of division in Nigeria. “The division is not just about the local branches here. The church has branches all over the world. “We also need to make it a priority that Nigeria needs to reconcile with the rest of the world and I know it will happen.