The Middle Belt Forum, Kaduna State chapter, has rejected any attempt by any group or individual to block the supply of food items to the southern part of the country. The group noted that as all ethnic nationalities within the Middle Belt region comprising youths, farmers, traders, artisans and others from Benue, Kogi, Taraba, Plateau, Nasarawa, Adamawa, Southern Borno, Southern Kaduna, Southern Bauchi, Southern Yobe, Kebbi, Niger, Kwara and FCT Abuja have disassociated themselves from attempts and calls by some disgruntled elements to block food supply to the southern part of the country. John Haruna, Secretary, Middle Belt Forum, Kaduna State chapter, in a statement said the call is laughable, trash, nonsense in its entirety and unacceptable. The statement stated, “We from the Middle Belt region of Nigeria shall continue to transact, do trade with and supply abundant food items to our Southern brothers who are so dear to us.” It explained that no amount of blackmail shall force them to part away from Yorubas, Igbos Ijaws, Binis, Ibibios and others. “Let it be known to this group that the era of divide and rule by the so called core north is over, completely buried and gone for good. Such cannot be tolerated any longer. We no longer accept deceit and lies from anybody,” the group explained. The forum advised those who are championing and supporting the call to rethink and desist from further making such an empty treat that will not augur well for them and their sponsors. According to the group, the forum warned that it would not accommodate or tolerate such reckless statement from any quarter and asked the group to stare clear of Middle Belt geographical territories. “Middle Belt is not part of the north and Middle Belt region is capable and can feed the entire Nigeria including the so called core north. In fact, Benue and Kogi alone can feed the entire Nigeria twenty four calendar months, their dubious intention will be meet with stiff resistance. How on earth do you cut supply of what you don’t have or what you don’t produce?,” the forum wondered. The forum asked those interested in blocking the transportation of food items to be careful as not to jeopardise the already existing good, harmonious working relationship with the Southern brothers, adding that they would not live any stone unturned to make sure they continue to maintain the existing good and cordial relationship with their Southern brothers.