Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Presidency has debunked reports that there was a fire incident in the Presidential Villa, Abuja. A statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, explained that the fire was between the outer wire fence and walls surrounding the Villa. 2. Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, yesterday, declared that he would contest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The governor who made the declaration while interacting with reporters in Abuja, said his ambition is predicated on calls by Nigerian youths, women, the less-privileged, among others. 3. Delta State Independent Electoral Commission (DSIEC), yesterday, in Asaba returned the 25 chairmanship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as winners in Saturday’s local government elections. 4. Following the killing of two farmers, Mr Toyin Akeju and Mr Yusuf Onuche, by suspected Fulani herdsmen, the Peoples Democratic Party yesterday, called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to compel leaders of herders in the state to fish out the killers. The party stated this in a statement by its state Publicity Secretary, Raphael Adeyanju. 5. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has invited for questioning the Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly, Mr Bamidele Oleyelogun, over an allegation of fraud that allegedly rocked the Assembly recently. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, described Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo as “a reliable and dedicated deputy, who is not only admirably competent, but also exudes confidence and passion in the performance of his job”. This was contained in a statement issued by his spokesman, Garba Shehu. 7. Austrian authorities yesterday suspended inoculations with a batch of AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 vaccine as a precaution while investigating the death of one woman and the illness of another after receiving the vaccines. It was reported that the affected women were health workers. 8. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and the Chairman Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Mr Boss Mustapha, will receive doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine today. The Director Press, Office of the SGF (OSGF), Mr. Willie Bassey, said this in a notice on Sunday. 9. A senior officer with the Edo State Police Command has been kidnapped. The gunmen reportedly broke into the Benin residence of the victim identified as ASP Clement Amoko in the early hours of Sunday and whisked him away. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 269 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 18 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. NCDC made the announcement yesterday night while giving a report on daily cases via its official website.