Nigerian musical artist and one of the ambassadors of T Pumpy Concept Limited, Femi Solar has opened up on his relationship with developers of T Pumpy Estate. The singer described the realtors as genuine and trustworthy and brand to be trusted.   He also described the MD/CEO of T Pumpy, Mr.Akintayo Adaralegbe as a straightforward man. Solar stated this in a recent visit to the T Pumpy office in Abuja.  His words, “Because when I was signed in by T Pumpy, I saw one thing about the organization. One thing I noticed about T Pumpy is that it is genuine and it is what I can associate myself with the name. “I’m pleased with the good name of the company, when you see something that is genuine, you can be rest assured that you’ll be very okay to associate with such a family.  “Because to me T Pumpy concept is a family, any good name in the society can be associated with. That’s what makes me so comfortable to associate with the company. “A lot of things make the T Pumpy brand unique because the way we run our things in the company is so different from others. We have evidence to prove. We deal with our subscribers in a different way. We deal with them as one family. It’s a unique brand.”  “The CEO/MD, I will call him Engineer Akintayo Adaralegbe, is a fantastic man and one thing I noticed about him is that he’s a straight forward man and that is what I do love about him. Anybody I’m going to deal with, I love it when you’re straight forward and that is so fantastic about him. He won’t promise you anything he’s not going to do. Once he promises you just believe it is done that’s one thing I love about him.  “He’s a straightforward man and that is why the business is moving forward. Even the way he deals with staff, we the ambassadors, the subscribers, the agents, you can see it’s very smooth. I believe he’s a straight forward man and he believes so much in honesty and he believes a lot in his integrity, the good name of the company. That’s one thing I know about him. “Shout out to my fans out there, shout out to everybody that believes so much that name Femi Sola. And this is a brand I’m associated with, and I want to say they should keep enjoying Femi Sola and keep enjoying the brand T. Pumpy Concept.  “We’re for you, T Pumpy Concept is for you, Femi Sola is for you. And we’ll continue to protect our integrity and the good name and we will not disappoint you.” Meanwhile, T Pumpy is set to open her Nyanya and Kuje office complexes.  According to the MD/CEO of T Pump, one of the offices, which is located along the Nyanya-Jikwoyi road will bring T Pumpy closers to her subscribers in Abuja suburbs and Nasarawa. He also said T Pumpy Estates in Jikwoyi/Kpeyegyi, Onex Gwarinpa and Kurudu are in the offing