Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday confirmed attack on him by suspected militia herdsmen in his farm at Tyo-mu, along Makurdi – Gboko road. The Governor made the confirmation while briefing journalists at the Benue Peoples House, Makurdi, the state capital. 2. Kinsmen of former president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan under the aegis of the Ogbia Brotherhood Youths Council (OBYC) and other Ijaw communities under the auspices of Movement for the Survival of Ijaw Ethnic Nationality in Niger Delta (MOSIEND) have distanced themselves from Mujahid Dokubo’s declaration of Biafra Government, saying they are not part of it. 3. Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday, declared that he would not support former president, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, if he decides to contest for presidency in 2023, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). 4. Political thugs on Saturday invaded a polling unit in Omuo-Ekiti, in Ekiti State during the House of Assembly bye-election in Ekiti East constituency 1 conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), killing three persons. 5. Ebonyi State governor, Chief David Umahi, yesterday, endorsed Dr.George Moghalu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 6 gubernatorial election in Anambra State. Umahi gave the endorsement when the guber aspirant and some prominent members of his campaign team paid him a consultation visit at his Umunaga Uburu. 6. The House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committee on the Need to Review the Purchase, Use and Control of Arms, Ammunition and Related Hardware by Military, Paramilitary and Other Law Enforcement Agencies in Nigeria has invited the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; service chiefs and other heads of paramilitary agencies to appear before it on Monday. 7. The Federal Government has faulted the fresh notice by the Academic Staff Union of Universities to embark on a fresh strike barely four months after calling off a 10-month industrial action. The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said any person conceiving a strike after close to one year of downing tools would be doing a disservice to students. 8. Three persons have been killed in separate cult attacks in Anambra and Osun states with two of the victims beheaded, while the third was shot dead. The incident caused panic in the two areas, as the assailants, who reportedly arrived on two motorcycles, shot the victims and fled the scene. 9. Following the attack on Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said the Federal Government will be held responsible if his Benue counterpart is assassinated. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 112 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 13 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The total number of recorded infections in the country has now risen to 161,651.