The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Executive Secretary of National Agricultural Land Development Authority, NALDA, has berated the purported primary election held by the party, which produced Mr. Mascot Uzor Kalu as APC candidate for the coming Saturday, March 27 bye-election in Aba North and Aba South federal constituency seats. Mascot Uzor Kalu was a Chief of Staff to former Governor, Theodore Orji and younger brother of the Senate Majority Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Ikonne, a founding member of the All Progressives Congress in Abia State, insisted that no primary was held anywhere in Aba to elect party candidate, as many party members were shot out to purchase nomination forms. The former APC governorship aspirant, who spoke on a live radio programme monitored by DAILY POST, on Thursday morning, accused Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and other party stakeholders of imposing Mascot on the party members. NALDA Executive Secretary posited that his party, the APC, does not have a candidate in Aba North and South Federal constituency, insisting that there was no proper primary election conducted anywhere ahead of the forthcoming Aba bye-election. Ikonne criticized Senator Orji Kalu for his alleged deceitful and diabolic activities, urging the people of Aba North and Aba South constituents to reject Mascot in the upcoming poll as the people will no longer afford to return to Egypt. He said, “No one can take us back to Okija Shrine. You can’t make a mess of Aba and come back to laugh at us. Orji Uzor Kalu joined us and before he joined us, APC was going smoothly. As a founding member of APC in Abia State, we will not allow him to kill APC the way he killed PPA”. The APC chieftain further challenged Senator Kalu to show the world one achievement as a legacy in Aba during and after his reign as Abia Governor. “Those supporting Senator Orji who imposed his last brother on APC to show Abians one thing Orji Uzor Kalu has as a legacy in Aba. If he believes in Aba, he should have supported another person not his brother, Mascot, and not even when his younger brother (Nnanna Uzor Kalu), has gone there before with no single legacy anywhere in Aba. “We can’t allow Orji Uzor Kalu to bring the head of indigenes and non indigenes together in Aba. We live and grow together and we have been doing that, but Orji Kalu is all for his family and not even for his community nor Abia north.”. DAILY POST recalls that the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), had picked Hon. Mascot Uzor-Kalu as the flag bearer in the coming Aba North and Aba South federal constituency bye-election. The APC in a statement issued to journalists in Umuahia, by the State Publicity Secretary, Comrade Benedict Godson, however, congratulated Mascot Uzor Kalu on his emergence as the party’s candidate and expressed confidence in the capacity of the latter to deliver if elected in the green chamber of the Nigeria House of Representatives The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed March 27 for the Aba North/South bye-election in Abia State. The election will fill the vacancy caused by the death of Ossy Prestige, the constituency’s former representative.