The Director-General of the National Agency for Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof Mojisola Adeyeye has presented the preliminary result of a clinical test of substances wreaking havoc on the health of Kano citizens. She made the presentation during a courtesy visit to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in Kano, accompanied by the Director Enforcement of the agency, State Coordinator of NAFDAC, former President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Pharm Ahmed Ibrahim Yakasai, among others. Prof Adedeye revealed that about five substances were discovered to be the culprit, causing strange illnesses for residents of the state. She said, “There are 5 substances involved in this development. Out of the 5 substances, only 3 were registered and the remaining 2 were not registered. We still wonder how they came into the country. As our investigation reveals that, they were not imported into the country through our Ports.” “Some of those substances are poisonous. When one takes them, he or she would find it very difficult to breathe normally. That is close to death.” She disclosed that six directorates of the agency were working to define a coherent and scientific explanation on the issue. “The substances have Citric Acid. We also went to 2 companies that have the registered substances with them, though their substances are registered, we still put them on hold, to avoid certain things, until after our examination,” she explained. Adeyeye assured that when the final result is arrived at, the agency would present it to the state government. She commended the effort of the Acting Managing Director of the State Consumer Protection Council, Baffa Babba Dan Agundi, over his unrelenting commitment to fighting the marketing of poisonous substances, alongside fake and counterfeit drugs trooping into the state. In his remarks, Governor Ganduje assured them of his administration’s commitment towards partnering with NAFDAC in specified areas to keep the state and the nation safer and healthier. Ganduje hinted that for now the source of those substances are known to authorities, “While we arrested many consignments, we are still combing our markets thoroughly, expressing happiness that the process of substance examination was hastened.” ”We will also continue with the public enlightenment. We need to work very hard as the fasting period is approaching when people use all kinds of substances as appetisers,” he assured.