The Human Rights Writers Association, HURIWA, on Sunday said the failure of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to rescue the 39 abducted college students in Kaduna State has shown that it is not in charge. HURIWA said Nigeria’s insecurity is deeper than envisaged, stressing that the inability or unwillingness of Buhari’s administration to rescue the students, two weeks after their capture “signposts the imminent collapse of the government.” In a statement signed by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, the group called on the president to sack his National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd). The rights group also said the abduction of eight members of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, in Kaduna State shows that “Kaduna has become the hotbed of religious intolerance.” The statement reads: “HURIWA is worried that the President Muhammadu Buhari and the Government of the Federation has proven incapable of protecting Nigerians but still clings on to power and daily Nigerians are kidnapped without any form of security measures to pre-emptively stop KIDNAPPING of Citizens “It is possible that Islamic Jihadist terror cells are active in Kaduna, in North West of Nigeria and have upped their targeted attacks at Christians and Christian communities in Southern Kaduna. “President Muhammadu Buhari administration has proven that it has nothing to offer by way of securing the lives of Nigerians and the President himself has also refused to use the instrumentality of the law to go after TERROR GANGSTERS and bring them to justice. “The Government’s lacklustre approach to combating the extensive and massive insecurity threatening to tear the nation apart has been incoherent and rudderless. The Government must overhaul its security strategy and wage a law-based approach to ensure that terrorists, kidnappers, Fulani herdsmen are made to face the full weight of the law.” Gunmen had on March 20th 2021, raided a college in Northwest Nigeria and kidnapped 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation in Mando, Kaduna state. HURIWA also accused the Kaduna State Government of “encouraging Islamic extremists to keep attacking Christians of Southern Kaduna following the arbitrary decision of the powers that be to ensure that the heads of the three arms of government in Kaduna State are drawn from Moslem religion whereas other religious communities and ethnicities are marginalised and treated as second class citizens.” The group described as deplorable and disgusting the “fact that both the Federal government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the government of Kaduna State have not made any sort of efforts to rescue these innocent students and it shows the government has lost control and the only option left is for the entire machinery of government to resign en mass so another election is organised to bring in, competent people or alternatively President Muhammadu Buhari should dismiss his national security Adviser Major General Babagana Monguno who has been incapable of offering a workable solution to the widening spectre of terrorism in Northern Nigeria and much of Nigeria.”