Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, decorated the nation’s new service chiefs. The decoration which held inside the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja came after the two chambers of the National Assembly had confirmed the service chiefs’ nominations. 2. The Executive Chairman of the EFCC, Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa on Friday, pledged to steer the organisation towards proactive and intelligence-led investigation. Bawa said this in Abuja yesterday when he officially assumed duties at the commission’s headquarters. 3. The Supreme Court Friday cleared all the hurdles hampering the progress of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State. The Court in a judgement read by Amina Adamu Augie, JSC, upheld the ruling of the Appeal Court and declared Isaac Abbot-Ogbogbula, Chairman of the APC in Rivers State following his appointment by the National leadership of the party. It ruled that the party’s decision was supreme. 4. National Leader of APC, Bola Tinubu, has urged youths to allow peace to reign, pointing out that no nation can develop in an atmosphere devoid of peace and harmony. Tinubu said this at the inauguration of the 1.4 km-long dual carriageway flyover at Pen Cinema junction, Agege Local Government Area of Lagos State. 5. Former Nigeria president, Goodluck Jonathan, yesterday described the rumours concerning his 2023 presidential ambition as mere speculation. He made this known when he paid a condolence visit to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. 6. A medical doctor, Dr. Cyprian Ngong, who works with the National Hospital in Abuja, yesterday emerged as the first person to receive the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine in Nigeria. 7. A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Igo Aguma who was declared the Interim Chairman of the APC by a Rivers State High Court has resigned his membership of the party. Aguma said he could not remain in APC in good conscience. This followed the judgement by the Supreme Court on the Rivers’ APC crisis. He also stated that his decision to leave the party was premised on his political survival. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and other top officials are expected to receive their COVID-19 vaccination today. Governors have also been scheduled to receive theirs on Wednesday. 9. The Federal Government, through the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, has budgeted the sum of N10.6bn to transport COVID-19 vaccine to the 36 states and the 774 local government areas as well as the Federal Capital Territory and the six area councils. This was contained in a document distributed to governors during an emergency meeting on Friday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 371 fresh cases of the dreaded coronavirus (COVID-19) in 19 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country so far to 158,042.