The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Akwa Ibom State command said its operatives have uncovered about 3,000 litres of suspected adulterated diesel concealed in a truck laden with sand. It added that three suspects were arrested in connection with the crime. The state commandant of NSCDC, Mr. Samuel Fadeyi who disclosed this to newsmen in Uyo, the State capital said the suspects were coming from Ahoada, Rivers State on Tuesday March 2, 2021 when they were apprehended at the border town between Akwa Ibom and Rivers State. Fadeyi stated that the command can only ascertain that it was diesel concealed in sand and not sure if there were other ammunitions concealed inside the sand saying that investigation was ongoing. His words, “This is an exhibition of people trying to smuggle illegally defined diesel. You can see they tried to conceal it in sand. It was an open truck and ordinarily when you see it, you think they are conveying sand. But due to the vigilance of my men at the border post, they were able to intercept the truck. “For now we can only ascertain that it’s diesel. We don’t Know what is inside, it is still undergoing investigation. But I have to sound a note of warning to people that they cannot continue to sabotage our economy. “Illegal refined oil are products of oil theft and this must not be allowed to continue, even the degradation that it does to the economy is unbearable and it’s a problem for the country. “That is why we have to bring this to your notice because as security agents, we need your information concerning some of these people, they are not ghosts; they do these things in front of people. It’s very unfortunate that you see a truck loaded with sand only for you to find out that there is something inside You never can tell that there might be arms and ammunition in there. “They are three suspects in this we are going to prosecute them and they will see their days in court. I have also directed my men in the field particularly those at the border posts to be very alert as this has been the trick of criminals, so that Akwa Ibom and Nigeria must remain safe.”