A Katsina-born crusader, Mahdi Shehu, is reportedly still in the custody of the Nigeria Police despite a court order for immediate release. Shehu, 62, was first detained for 11 days between November and December 2020, on the orders of the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu. The IGP Monitoring Unit operatives arrested him over a multi-billion naira corruption and funds misappropriation allegation against Governor Aminu Bello Masari, Secretary to the Government, Mustapha Inuwa, other officials and contractors. Shehu, in a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), alleged that between June 2015 and April 29, 2020, the government squandered N52 billion from the state’s security account, among others. Following an order of the FCT High Court, Shehu, on December 18, was released to attend a court hearing. The High Court declared the applicant’s arrest and detention unconstitutional and unlawful. The court awarded N5 billion as damages against the Nigeria Police and the IGP. But the Police and Adamu, yet to pay the damages, rearrested Shehu on February 16. The Federal High Court, presided over by Justice Taiwo O. Taiwo, again ordered IGP Adamu and the FCT Police Commissioner, to release Shehu from detention. His lawyer, Mustapha Abubakar, accused the Police of failing to obey the law. “The order for the release/bail of the applicant was made in Suit No: PHC/ABJ/CS/208/21 between Alhaji Muhammad Mahdi Shehu Vs. IGP and COP FCT Abuja, pursuant to an ex parte application for interim reliefs, and failure of the Respondents to produce the Applicant before the Court as earlier ordered,” the counsel said. A family member told PRNigeria that the Police was flagrantly shunning a valid ruling. “It is apparently out of sheer wickedness that our brother and eminent philanthropist Alhaji Mahdi Shehu is still been held hostage and detained illegally on the order of IGP Adamu.” The relative added that the detainee was battling some health challenges and alleged that the police was denying him access to medication. Since his arrest, Shehu, the Chairman of Dialogue Group Limited, has been sighted with a neck brace and crutches.