The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) led administration of Adegboyega Oyetola to stop boasting about the payment of workers salary in the state. In a statement made available to DAILY POST and signed by its chairman, Sunday Bisi, the party wondered why the governor and his subordinates have ridiculed and reduced themselves to noisemakers on serious state matters. While reacting to a statement by Mr. Taiwo Akeju, the Commissioner for Political Affairs and Inter Governmental Relations about the government meeting up with the payment of salaries of its workforce, the opposition party in the state asked the governor to resign if it was bereft of what it takes to run a government. They asked whether the governor and his cabinet members were not drawing their salary and allowances from the state’s treasury, adding that it was out of place for the Commissioner to have requested the citizens to roll out drums in praise of the governor who is paying workers who have been the brains behind governance in the state. The PDP challenged the governor to find a way to pay the outstanding entitlements of public servants in the state which included the over 30 months unpaid workers salary, as well as pensioners’ monthly token, which have been left unattended to since the assumption of his administration. According to the party, “We have also noted with dismay, the persistent mockery of pensioners in the state with what could best be described in common parlance as audio release of funds for their entitlements. “It is worrisome that a governor would be going about lying about release of over 30 billion Naira for pensioners in the state in utter disregard for personal dignity of the retired workers.” The PDP called on the governor and his executive council to carry out their constitutional responsibility instead of continuous desecration of the state with songs of payment of salary and trying to curry undeserved public pity. “If Mr. Governor and his men are so confused, we advise they go on excursions to other reasonable constituent states of the federation where talk of salary payment has never been on the front burners of public discourse because such exercise to them is normal and an expedient obligation of anyone in government without recourse to seeking sympathetic applause.”