Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Nigerian Army, yesterday, warned Sheikh Ahmed Gumi, and “opinion merchants” against portraying its image “in bad light. Army Public Relations Director, Brig.-Gen.Mohammed Yerima, gave the warning in a statement on Monday. 2. The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 yesterday said that at the end of Tuesday, the 3.9 million AstraZeneca vaccine doses received last week would have been distributed to all 36 states. 3. There was an uproar on Monday in Idiyan, Ibarapa area of Oyo State, following the killing of four men by suspected loyalists of Iskilu Wakelin, who was on Sunday apprehended by members of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) and handed over to the police. 4. Inspector-General (IG) Mohammed Adamu on Monday, faulted the argument that his retention in office was unlawful having attained the maximum 35 years in service on February 1. Adamu said law permits him to be IGP till 2024. His position was contained in the counter-affidavit and notice of objection he filed against a suit by a lawyer, Maxwell Opara before the Federal High Court in Abuja. 5. A security guard with the Kainji National Park in the Borge local government area of Niger State was yesterday killed by armed bandits, while several others were injured in a fresh attack on the community on Monday. 6. The President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr Samson Ayokunle yesterday, said where there is no justice, fairness and equity there cannot be peace, adding that Nigerian leaders need to embrace fairness. The Christian leader disclosed this in Lokoja on Monday at the official inauguration of the Government House chapel for Christian worshippers. 7. Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State said the APC has so far registered about 2.5 million members in the ongoing membership registration/revalidation in the state. This was contained in a statement by Mr Abba Anwar, Chief Press Secretary to the governor on Monday in Kano. 8. Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, yesterday broke her long silence as she sent a goodwill message to Nigerian women on the International Women’s Day. Outspoken Mrs Buhari had gone off the radar around September 2020 shortly after the wedding of her daughter, Hanan. 9. The remains of a man, identified simply as John, and his girlfriend, Darasimi, have been recovered from a hotel in the Fagaba area of Lagos State. Darasimi who was supposed to be in school, was said to have lodged in the hotel with her boyfriend, but their motionless bodies were found in the hotel room on Monday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 371 fresh cases of coronavirus, (COVID-19) in many states across the country. The health agency made the announcement yesterday night via a tweet on its verified Twitter handle.