A heap of non-biodegradable waste has been discovered floating on the Oora River located at the Oromu axis of Ayeso Road in Ilesa. Eyewitnesses disclosed to DAILY POST that the waste had been piling on the river passage for some months and has become a serious cause for concern to people residing in the area due to the stench coming from it. They also said the waste was now polluting the river which for years has been a clean source of water for some of the residents along its bank. A community leader in Ayeso, Ilesa, Elder Timothy Ayegoro who spoke to DAILY POST said the Oora River used to be clean and flowed freely without any blockades, adding that people used to do small-time fishing from the river and their catches sold to earn little money for sustenance. He lamented that all those were now in the past as he was sure that marine life in the river would have been depleted as a result of the filth that littered the bank which now acts as a clog to the flow of water. Another resident, Isaac Aderanti stated the current state of the river was a reflection of the manner of living of the people. In his words, “Just imagine what our people are doing to this river and aqua life in it. They will gather heaps of refuse from their houses and dispose of it in the river. Some even come to the river bank to defecate and urinate. “You can see some plastics that are not bio-degradable in the water. They just float on the water and block its natural flow. “Just imagine, our attitude towards aqua life is bad and before you know it, there is going to be serious flooding. This is human error, it is not natural at all. May God help us all.” He called on the state government and relevant agencies to come to the aid of the community urgently to avert the looming danger. According to him, the rainy season has started and there is the danger of the river overflowing and bursting its bank, a situation which would cause untold damage to properties and life. Meanwhile, some residents who feigned ignorance claimed that they were not aware of the dangers that such would cause adding that some adults and children even go to the river to swim during the peak of the rainy season because by then, it would have swollen and would be clearer than what is obtained at the moment.