Former Real Madrid and Liverpool forward, Michael Owen, has predicted that Chelsea will beat Everton when both sides clash in the Premier League on Monday night at Stamford Bridge. Owen also predicted Manchester City to defeat Manchester United on Sunday evening at the Etihad Stadium. He also suggested that West Ham United will beat Leeds United on Monday night at the London Stadium. Providing his predictions, Owen told BetVictor: “Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has come in for a bit of criticism in recent weeks due to his side’s under-par record against the top six. However, when you look at how United set up, it’s no real surprise. They simply don’t get to dictate the territory against these sides, and ultimately that can lead to a stalemate. “However, one side that will happily dominate possession is City. They can’t play any other way, so I expect United to be pinned back from the outset. “Ole will hope his side can utilise their excellent counter-attack, and I believe it’s likely they’ll score. “However, I just can’t see them keeping City out and think this will be the end of Manchester United’s magnificent away run. Manchester City 3, Manchester United 1.” On the Chelsea vs Everton game, Owen said, “Chelsea fans really couldn’t have asked for a better start to the Thomas Tuchel era. With UEFA Champions League qualification well within their grasp, along with a win at Anfield, the players’ confidence must be sky-high going into this. “However, Everton will pose just as difficult a challenge as anyone. The Toffees have been great this season, and if they were just slightly more consistent, who knows where they’d be. “This should be a great game. Tuchel vs Ancelotti is a fascinating battle, and I think it’s bound to be tight. With that in mind, I think Chelsea will just edge it by the slenderest of margins. Chelsea 1, Everton 0.” Commenting on the West Ham vs Leeds United match, Owen said, “Two sides I’ve loved watching this season, West Ham and Leeds go head-to-head in what should be an entertaining contest. Leeds have been box office at times this season, however, they come up against one of the most organised sides in the Premier League. “There’s not an awful lot between these two, especially going forward. “That said, Leeds worry me at the back, and I think this West Ham front line can take advantage. It’s 2-1 to the Hammers for me. West Ham 2, Leeds United 1.” The kick-off time for Chelsea vs Everton is 7 pm, while that of Man City vs Man United is 5:30 pm and West Ham vs Leeds is 9 pm.