A former Governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah Jang and the Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to please grant executive pardon to the ex-governor of the state, Sen. Joshua Dariye, who is in prison. They equally appealed to the president to also grant executive pardon to former Governor of Taraba State, Jolly Nyame, who is serving a prison term. They said their appeal was because of the health condition of the former governor, and also on compassionate ground. They disclosed this before the kick-off of the finals of the First Ever Plateau North Peace, Unity and Reconciliation Football Tournament, organised by Sen. Gyang, held at the Rwang Township Stadium, in Jos the State Capital. Senator Gyang said, “We in Plateau North under the able leadership of our father, Sen. Jonah Jang, we are making an appeal to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, that there is a leader of Plateau State, a former Governor of the state, that is still incarceration, as he is still undergoing a prison term, in the person of His Excellency, Sen. Joshua Chibi Dariye. “We from Plateau North are appealing to the president that in view of the recent judgment by the Supreme Court that has absorbed Sen. Dariye of criminal misappropriation, and that on health grounds, he has been battling with his health. “And therefore, we are appealing to the President, that on compassionate grounds, Sen. Dariye should be granted executive pardon”, he appealed. Gyang, who is the Deputy, Chairman Senate Committee on Defence, further appealed to President Buhari, to include the Akwanga-Jos, Saminaka-Jos and Jos-Bauchi roads in the 2022 budgets, saying the roads have become “death traps”, especially the Akwanga- Jos road. “That’s our appeal to the representative of the President of the Senate, that you deliver our message”, he stressed. Also speaking, former governor of the state and an elder statesman, Sen. Jang, said, “We have consulted and I believe it’s time we speak with one voice from Plateau. “And I’m speaking as a leader from Plateau and as an elder statesman in this country, that it is time we plead with Mr. President that he should grant our son, Chief Joshua Dariye pardon. “I also want to take this opportunity to ask the representative of the Senate President, Senator Gabriel Suswam, to carry this message “As you know, Benue and Plateau are neighbours to Taraba; and we want to ask that while we plead for Dariye, we are also pleading for the former Governor of Taraba State, Jolly Nyame, that he too be granted executive pardon”, he appealed. Speaking on the football tournament, the immediate past Governor of the state, challenged other lawmakers to replicate what Sen. Gyang is doing in their respective constituencies. Responding, Sen. Suswam assured that their appeal will be delivered to the Senate President. He commended Senator Gyang for organising the tournament and urged his constituents to continue to support him.