Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, on Tuesday, said the state government will reconstitute an interfaith committee to further build confidence and provide templates to steadily resolve all issues of mutual concerns between the Muslims and Christians in the state. In a statewide broadcast to the people of the state, Governor Abdulrazaq praised the level of restraints and statesmanship shown by religious leaders in the state notwithstanding their varied positions. The governor acknowledged the apprehension from the Christian and Muslim communities, saying with dozens of meetings held with various thoughts leaders from both sides, he was convinced that, “beneath the tensions and misgivings around the hijab decision are old wounds that must be healed. ” I commend them and reassure them that we will always be fair, courageous in taking decisions for sustainable peace and be willing to listen to their concerns,” he stated. According to him, ” On 26th February, 2021, the administration announced an official policy allowing any willing Muslim schoolgirl to wear the hijab in public schools. ” That announcement followed several days of consultations, meetings, brainstorming and dispassionate weighing of policy options. ” We took the decision in good faith and in the overall interest of all. I swore an oath to protect every Kwara. ” This oath includes looking at the bigger picture and doing everything to prevent a crisis before it occurs,” he added. Governor Abdulrazaq assured all Kwarans that the government will take genuine steps to address the concerns raised by various faith communities, adding that, ” in doing so, a huge dose of understanding, selflessness and patriotism will be required.” He commended the security agencies for their professionalism and sticking to strategic patience jointly agreed upon which helped to prevent loss of lives and properties, while keeping crisis merchants in check. The Governor also urged parents to caution their wards to stay clear from trouble, as any attempt to take advantage of the situation to foment trouble be met with maximum punishment prescribed by the law.