As torrential rains begin to wreak havoc in various parts of the state, the Osun State Government has indicated its preparedness to commence enforcement of the signage law in the state. The state government made this known on Thursday through Mrs. Dupe Ajayi Gbadebo, the Chief Executive Officer of the Osun State Signage, Hoarding and Advertisement Agency (O’S1ignage). While addressing newsmen in Osogbo, Mrs Ajayi- Gbadebo said that, “demand notices have been served to signage owners while removal notices have also been placed on illegal and wrongly placed signposts and billboards across the State. “The removal notices placed on signage were intended to instil sanity, compel registration and make defaulters to settle approved bills to the coffers of the State Government. “We, therefore, call on individuals and corporate bodies with such notices to come to the Signage office to fulfil their obligations and get clearance.’ The signage boss urged those who want to make payments to the agency to do so directly to the Government account in various banks adding that it does not allow its staffers to collect cash payments. According to Mrs Ajayi-Gbadebo, “the State Government is most concerned about safety of lives. Vision blights do occur as a result of the competitive location of several bill boards along roadsides and these often result in accidents and loss of lives.” She pointed out that rainstorms are capable of forcefully removing billboards which are not well erected and signposts which can pose serious danger to lives and property of innocent people. “The three core objectives that inform the activities of signage agencies are to standardise erection of boards and signage in an orderly manner; create environmental aesthetics; encourage and enhance commercial activities. “The Agency is devoid of political colouration. Whether political or religious and any other type of poster or signage, the owners must register with the Government properly and the agency would guide them on the right way and appropriate places to paste posters or erect billboards.” While appealing to interested persons who want to use public space for advertisement to come to the agency for registration, she disclosed that the state could no longer tolerate the manner major streets have been defaced with posters, other signage as well as billboards. She added that any individual, religious organisation, political party, company or business owner who attempts to use public space for advertisement without the authorisation of the signage agency would not only forfeit such billboards but will also be arrested and prosecuted. “Pasting of posters indiscriminately would no longer be allowed in any part of the state and only those who register appropriately would be able to make use of the public space for advertisement purposes”, she warned. Soliciting the support of the citizens, Mrs. Ajayi-Gbadebo disclosed that the agency allows reasonable payment arrangements of annual dues, as well as the need to patronise professional advertisers. The signage dues, according to her, is determined by sizes or location as well as the level of industrial concerns involved with the signage.