Michael Owen, a former Real Madrid striker, has predicted Manchester United to beat AC Milan in tonight’s Europa League round of 32 second-leg tie at San Siro. Owen also predicted Arsenal to defeat Olympiakos at the Emirates Stadium. According to him, Tottenham Hotspur will beat Dinamo Zagreb, while Rangers will defeat Slavia Prague. Providing his predictions, Owen told BetVictor: “Arsenal were at their very best in Greece last week, taking a healthy 3-1 win back to the Emirates. For me, there was a clear gulf in class between the two sides, and back on home soil, I’m siding with the Gunners to go safely through. Arsenal 2, Olympiakos 0.” Commenting on the Dinamo Zagreb vs Tottenham Hotspur game, Owen said, “Spurs have saved a lot of their best work for the Europa League this season. Given the automatic UEFA Champions League entry to the winner of the competition, there’s no doubt that Jose Mourinho will have his eye on the prize. With that in mind, I can see Tottenham going about their business professionally and I think they’ll come away with a narrow win on the night. Dinamo Zagreb 0, Tottenham Hotspur 1.” Speaking on the AC Milan vs Manchester United match, Owen said, “Manchester United conceded a late goal at Old Trafford last week, giving AC Milan a real boost going into the return leg. Another tight match is expected here, and even though United will most likely set up to play on the counter, I do feel Milan are clever enough to keep them at bay. “That said, being at home means the Italians are likely to go for it at some stage, and when they do, I can see United punishing them at the other end. It’s 1-0 to the Red Devils for me.” On the Rangers vs Slavia Prague game, Owen said, “Newly crowned Scottish champions Rangers welcome Slavia to Ibrox after playing out an evenly matched first leg. “The Gers started the match rather sluggishly. However, they managed to get an all-important away goal which I can see being crucial here. “Ibrox has been a fortress all season. Undefeated there both domestically and in Europe is some feat at this stage of the season, and for that reason, I feel the Glaswegian will have enough to book their place in the quarter-final draw. Rangers 2, Slavia Prague 1.” The kick-off time for Milan vs Man Utd and Rangers vs Slavia Praha is 9 pm, while Arsenal vs Olympiacos and Dinamo vs Tottenham is 6: 55 pm.