For peace to reign in Southern Kaduna and Kaduna State in general, citizens must learn to put out the flames of revenge and reprisal and embrace dialogue, empathy, reconciliation and justice. The state Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan made the assertion while speaking at a round table dialogue for religious, traditional and community leaders for peace and security in Southern Kaduna. The event was organized by Rev. Dr. Gideon and Funmi Para-Mallam peace Foundation for inter-religious harmony for peaceful
coexistence. Aruwan explained that besides creating platforms where citizens from various backgrounds and identities can listen to one other, dialogue would create avenues for them to collaborate towards improving their communities. He added, “This helps to place focus on something everyone can lay claim to, like our shared environment, the geographical space which houses us all irrespective of our beliefs or culture and the real possibility of collective progress. These are the aspects that need to be highlighted more and more, and the narratives that need to be pushed more vigorously.” He observed that the architecture of peace and security is not complete without the institutions which house the core of individual and group identity. The Commissioner emphasized that “Religion and ethnicity are generally accepted as distinct markers of our identity, with profound influence on how we conduct virtually every aspect of our lives. Religious and traditional leaders therefore have a huge responsibility as custodians of these two pillars of identity. They are the gatekeepers of our society, and the Government acknowledges that any meaningful peace efforts must be complemented by these gatekeepers.” He said the government may create frameworks but they would be run by people, stressing that how people think and approach issues will largely be shaped by their religious and traditional leaders. Arwan called on the leaders to handle the burden of social responsibility with great circumspection and ensure they play a positive role in the development of their immediate circle of influence, be it a constituency or a congregation or domain. He appealed to security personnel, traditional and religious leaders, journalists, peace workers and others to promote dialogue and to do so with sincerity and honesty. “We must take the steps towards dialogue with a solution-oriented and listening disposition. If our objective is peace, mutual respect, understanding and coexistence, then surely, the time for dialogue is now,” he advised. To achieve that, he noted, people must begin to replace narrow thinking with the presumption of good faith in their fellow citizens, adding that this presumption of good faith is essential to dissolving imaginary boundaries and promoting dialogue. The Commander Special Task Force on Operation Safe Haven, Major General Chukwu Okonkwo, thanked the Rev. Dr Gideon and Funmi Para-Mallam peace foundation for engaging the youths, women and religious, traditional and community leaders in search of peace and better working relationships in Southern Kaduna. He noted that in the task of ensuring peace and unity among warring groups, the security agencies have been encountering challenges but assured that they are focused and determined to carry out their assignment to a logical conclusion. Earlier, Rev. Dr. Gideon Para-Mallam noted that the only thing that could put an end to the lingering problem is justice in all dealings, stressing that the truth should not be covered in religion but honesty should be the watchword.