A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and former Governorship Candidate in Abia State, Alex Otti, has reacted to the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party,(PDP), flagbearer, Hon Chimaobi Ebisike in the Aba North and Aba South federal constituency bye-election. DAILY POST reports that the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, candidate for the Aba North/South Federal Constituency bye-election, Chimobi Iheanyichukwu Ebisike, won the election. However, APC Chieftain, Alex Otti in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ferdinand Ekeoma, congratulated the PDP candidate, Chimobi Ebisike on his victory at the polls. Otti urged Ebisike to see his victory as an opportunity to impact positively on the lives of his constituents through quality representation. He expressed joy that despite the hot verbal exchanges that preceded the election, both the candidates and their supporters still ensured that there was no breakdown of law and order which gave room for the emergence of a winner devoid of objections from his opponents. According to Otti, “After election comes with the task of governance, therefore I would like to urge you to see the pre-election verbal engagements and disagreements within the context of political campaigns and ensure that you carry your constituents along across political divides so that you could have a supportive constituency”. The APC Stalwart appealed to youths in Abia State to refrain from acts capable of causing a breach of the peace, insisting that the present economic situation across the country makes it more dangerous for any state to witness any form of crisis. In a related development, the All Progressive Grand Alliance APGA Candidate in the just concluded Aba Re-run election, Hon Destiny Akaraka Nwagwu said he had accepted the outcome of the rerun election in good faith. Nwagwu disclosed that he would not challenge the results of the concluded election as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. He urged the newly elected representative to prioritize the welfare of the people once he is sworn in as a lawmaker at the House of Representatives.