The Cherubim and Seraphim Movement, proprietors of C&S College Sabo Oke, Ilorin, has expressed displeasure over the forceful breaking of the college’s gate on Friday, March 17, 2021. A statement entitled ‘Our Position’ in Ilorin, alleged that ” Some unidentified persons in Hilux vehicles backed by military men came to forcefully break the gate of the school. “There was no introduction or notice for such unholy action, even when our fathers and mothers in the Lord were on seat and other members of the church were praying. “If the aim of these military backed action is to allow Muslim students enter our college premises, with hijab, we want to say unequivocally that, we reject the use of hijab by any Muslim student in our college, because, this is a Christian mission school,” the statement declared. The C&S Movement vowed not to hand over its school to any government, because the church authorities had been overseeing the affairs of the school over the years. It said the school was established in March 1969, and since then the proprietors had put a lot of buildings within the premises without the contribution of the state government. On religious tolerance, the movement said, the college authorities had tolerated Muslim students convincingly in her 52 years of existence with Muslim males and females allowed to practice their religion without any hindrance. It further explained that ” Our college uniform is a white blouse over a green skirt with beret cap for girls, which our female students both Muslims and Christians had used over the years without problems, hence, “the movement will never take any other thing from this. ” If the government of the day feels that it can no longer pay the staff salaries or maintain the school, it should be returned to us,” the statement stated, adding that ” C&S College Sabo Oke, Ilorin, is our heritage, we will not cede to any government or group of people.” Meanwhile, the authorities of ECWA, have also dismissed reports that they have succumbed to the directive of the Kwara state government to allow the use of hijab in their school at Oja Iya in Ilorin. They described the purported news reports as utterly misleading, untrue, provocative and mischievous. In a statement in Ilorin, Chairman ECWA District Church Councils, Rev. Vincent Akintunde, said ECWA, is totally against the use of hijab in all our grant aided mission schools. “Our initial concern, however, borders on the ownership of the schools. “Our contention is against the Kwara state government which allowed the Muslim groups which subtly introduced the issue of hijab to the case to distract us from our primary concern, even while the matter is still pending in the Supreme Court,” the statement added.