For demanding that their employment be regularised, the Ogun State House of Assembly has sacked about 53 casual workers. DAILY POST reported in December that the Ogun State House of Assembly had many casual workers, who were paid stipends monthly as office assistants. The casual workers pleaded that their employment be regularised by the Ogun Assembly, lamenting that they are paid about N12,500 or N15,000 every month. But it seems the leadership of the Ogun Assembly and the Ogun State Government were not pleased with the demand of the workers, as sources said they felt “embarrassed.” It was gathered that the Clerk of the House, Deji Adeyemo, had earlier summoned all the casual workers to a meeting, warning them to keep the matter from the media. However, after the resumption of activities in January, the Director of Administration and Supplies, Adewale Gbadebo, was said to have “announced the sack of the poor casual workers, via a terse message posted on the WhatsApp group of the said workers,” a source has said. The message reads: “I am directed to inform all Office Assistants to report to the office for the New year cash gift from the House as well as December, 2020 salary. “I am also to appreciate you for your commitment while serving in the House and pray that God Almighty will grant you success in your future endeavour. Thank you.” The message, according to one of the affected casual workers, was sent on the first working day of the year, January 4, 2021. “It was very pathetic,” the worker lamented. The Chairman of Ogun Assembly Service Commission, Waliu Taiwo, has confirmed the development on Sunday. When asked if he was aware that the casual workers were dismissed, he said, “Yes, I am aware. You know casual workers is a way of helping people but it’s very illegal.” According to Taiwo, the Ogun Assembly is now short of staff, saying the place became empty after the dismissal of the casual workers. While saying he was making a case for the recruitment of more workers, Taiwo said he had written a memo awaiting the approval of Governor Dapo Abiodun, adding that some of the workers will be considered. Taiwo said he wouldn’t know whether or not the workers were sacked for talking to the press.