Nigerians have been urged not to fret over the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine because it is safe and effective for the cure of the deadly coronavirus The National Vanguard for COVID-19 Vaccine Administration and Advocacy, which made the call on Thursday, said there is no need for panic, noting that the benefits of the vaccine outweigh the risk or any side effects it may pose. The group also urged Nigerians to support the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), which is at the forefront of the sensitisation, administration and distribution of the vaccine. Recall that some European countries recently stopped the administration of the vaccine over reports of blood clots in recipients. Addressing a news conference on Thursday, the group’s Director of Publicity and Enlightenment, Nathaniel Agada, frowned at Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State over his approach to contagion and vaccines. Agada said, “Due to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic across the globe, such concerns were raised, and lots of focus have been on the different Health sectors in expectation to come up with a resolution on tackling the threat. “The COVID-19 pandemic is presenting unprecedented challenges for us all, from its effects on our everyday lives to its impacts on the world’s economies, beyond the tragic health hazards and human consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, the economic uncertainties and disruptions that have resulted come at a significant cost to the global economy concerning the demographic, social, and economic implications on the Nigerian population. “The arrival of the AstraZeneca vaccine into Nigeria has brought great relief upon the country that has been numbered with a load of tackling the coronavirus epidemic. Thanks to the immense efforts of the Nigerian government, the horned demon, also known as COVID-19, has been effectively arrested in the country. The mortality rate of the virus has been very low. Now, the Buhari led administration has taken the fight to another level by the importation of the COVID-19 vaccine into the country and distributing it to all the States in Nigeria. “Several experts in the past had predicted that when the COVID-19 pandemic hits African countries like Nigeria, it will bring with it a complete disaster. President Muhammadu led the administration, and the NPHCDA worked hard to prove these experts wrong. The NCDC also contributed immensely to the fight against COVID-19. “The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine is a vaccine used for the prevention of the novel coronavirus in individuals aged 18 [eighteen] and above. It works by teaching the body how to fight the virus whenever it’s infected.”