Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, restated that he has given security chiefs a marching order to go harder on criminals, including to shoot anyone found illegally with an AK-47. The President spoke at a meeting with the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria at the State House, Abuja. 2. The House of Representatives on Thursday said it lacks funds to carry out its constitutional mandate effectively, adding that the budget of the National Assembly should be reviewed upward. Rep. Benjamin Kalu, the spokesman for the House, said this while addressing newsmen in Abuja. 3. The National Primary Health Care Development Agency on Thursday, said some of those that have received the COVID-19 vaccine in Nigeria reported mild side effects. The Federal Government’s agency made this known in a statement on its Twitter handle on Thursday. 4. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday said he has not received doses of the COVID-19 vaccine because of the rule that stated that health workers should take first. The governor spoke during the virtual official unveiling of a tertiary health centre in Lekki, Lagos on Thursday. 5. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, commissioned the Newly Completed 13 Floor Twin Tower Ultra Modern Headquarters Building of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in Port Harcourt, the capital of Rivers State. 6. The National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.), yesterday, said negotiating with bandits will give the impression that the federal government is weak. He stated this while speaking at a press briefing in Aso Rock on Thursday. 7. Eight European countries that include Denmark, Norway, Italy, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Luxembourg have stopped using Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine as owing to blood clot incidents. However, the EU medicines regulator says there is no indication that the vaccine is linked to an increased risk of blood clots. 8. The Nigeria Interreligious Council, NIREC, under the joint leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, and the President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle, on Thursday, said that herdsmen and farmers crisis in the country are linked to climate change. The council stated this in a press release signed on behalf of the two leading clerics by NIREC’s Executive Secretary, Fr. Prof Cornelius Omonokhua, in Abuja. 9. The United States has said it was ready to help Nigeria end the frequent abduction of schoolchildren in northern parts of the country. Michael Gonzales, deputy assistant secretary at the US Bureau of African Affairs, said this yesterday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 287 more cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. The new recorded infections bring the total number of confirmed cases in Nigeria to 159,933.