More aspirants are declaring their interest for the governorship seat of Anambra State on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The chairman of the party in the state, Mr Norbert Obi said the rush to contest for the governorship election of the state on the platform of the party is because of the sterling performance of the governor of the state, Chief Willie Obiano, who is also from the party. “Our governor, Chief Willie Obiano is doing well in all areas, and I am not surprised that more people are coming to the party to contest the governorship election,” he said. So far, the party is said to have about 10 governorship aspirants, with about six of them officially notifying the party of their intention to run for the governorship election on their platform. Among them are; former Central Bank of Nigeria governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, former presidential aide on technical matters; Akachukwu Nwankpo, member of House of Representatives for Aguata federal constituency; Hon Chuma Umeoji, member representing Nnewi South state constituency in the House of Assembly; Hon Smart Okafor and the member representing Orumba North and Orumba South in the House of Representatives, Hon Okwudili Ezenwankwo. Nwankwo, a former Southeast and Anambra Market Traders chairman declared his interest to run for the governorship seat of the state on the platform of APGA to succeed Governor Willie Obiano. Making his declaration at the civic centre, Nanka, Orumba North L.G.A, Nwankwo noted that Gov. Obiano has done well in key developmental areas like security, commerce, education, health and others. He assured that he will continue where the governor stops, adding that he had the qualities, capabilities and managerial ability to develop the state further after Obiano. He said, “As a businessman and lawmaker, I have the ability, sagacity and the quality. I have been a good manager of men. I have been part and parcel of many governments in the state as well as been in APGA for 15 years. “I have been a stakeholder in APGA and have worked for the party. I am not afraid of any candidate, people in our party especially the youths know I am capable to succeed Gov. Obiano.”