Security operatives comprising the police and the military on Sunday averted a potential bloodbath at Kurmi village in Burra district of Ningi Local Government Area of Bauchi State when they prevented a clash between some members of the village, mostly youths and some illegal tree fellers in the Burra forest. Sources in the village informed journalists in Bauchi State that following the enactment of the law prohibiting and criminalising tree felling in the state, youths in the village attempted to enforce the law as they went into the forest and set ablaze the log of wood illegally fell by some people. This, our sources said was the cause of the ensuing violent clash in the village on Sunday. According to one of the sources, “People of Kurmi are fed up with deforestation which is caused by the activities of illegal tree fellers in the area. These unscrupulous elements are being aided by some undesirable local government officials. “This is what prompted the youths to storm the forest to burn to ashes timbers, charcoal and firewood fell by the illegal tree fellers. “The illegal tree fellers are fighting back through security agencies and local government council officials, thereby, making the issue to now become a crisis.” The source alleged that military personnel are conniving with the illegal timber to deal with the people, saying that, “right now military officers are in the village beating anybody on sight.” He added that the youths involved in the anti-tree felling activities are being dealt with by the illegal tree fellers in conjunction with their military collaborators, adding that some of them have been injured, while some have had their motorcycles burnt. The source alleged that a top official of Ningi local council, who is said to be formally an illegal tree feller, is the one encouraging the tree felling business in the area, adding that the said official is behind the involvement of military and police personnel in dealing with those against the business in the area. As of the time of filing this report, efforts to reach the chairman, Ningi LGA, Mamuda Tabla, to react to the development proved abortive as he didn’t take calls put across to his telephone and did not respond to the text message sent to him. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bauchi State Police Command, SP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, has confirmed the incident, adding that despite the fact that the clash was a violent one, no life was lost. “Yes, I can confirm the incident to you. Yesterday, 27th February, 2021, the police were reliably informed at about 18.00hours, that one notorious criminal living in Kurmi village in Burra District, Ningi Local Government Area led an attack. “He went to Gana village in the outskirts of Burra where the youth of that area had gathered their timber which is called Madrid and set it on fire. That led to unrest of the youth and they reacted which led to a fight between them and the guy.” The PPRO confirmed that two Bajaaj motorcycles belonging to the youths were burnt to ashes, adding that some youths were injured and taken to a nearby primary healthcare centre by the police, treated and discharged. The police spokesman assured that the police and military personnel have restored peace in the area, informing that four suspects were arrested in connection with the crime. According to Wakil, those arrested were: Haruna Ado (38); Jamilu Haruna (35); Yusuf Magaji (32) and Abdulrashid Adamu (20), all residents of that Kurmi village. He said that they would be profiled and their case be transferred to the State CID for discreet investigation.