About 200 persons are allegedly being monitored after taking the COVID-19 vaccination from the state Ministry for Health for adverse reactions. The figure is so far out of the over 500 people said to have been vaccinated in the state capital, Minna. It was gathered that the observation led to the suspension of further vaccination of persons in the state as well as local government areas, where the state Ministry for Health has rolled out the vaccines. DAILY POST learnt that the ministry dispatched the vaccines on Tuesday to the Primary Health Care Centres (PHCs) of the 25 councils with directives not to administer the vaccine yet on anyone pending when monitoring of those already vaccinated is completed. It was also gathered that the ongoing monitoring is termed under the “Advance Effect Following Immunization (AEFI)” and “Advance Effect of Special Interest (AESI)” evaluation. Presently, those vaccinated in the state include the governor, members of the state executive council, wife of the governor and officials of the wife of the governor’s office, members of the government house protocol and press crew, permanent secretaries, head of agencies and government departments. Others are officials and managers of COVID-19 Isolation and Quarantine centres, the State Primary Healthcare frontline workers, local government directors of PHCs and core chain officers who are the monitors of the vaccine program. The Executive Director of the Niger state Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr Ibrahim Dangana could not be reached as he sent a message stating that he was busy and directed the Reporter to his Media Aide who did not respond to calls put through to his line. Also, when contacted, the Commissioner of Health, Dr Mohammad Makunsidi did not pick his call. But, one of the information members of the Niger state COVID-19 Taskforce, Mohammed Mohammed said the Niger State COVID-19 vaccination program is divided into four phases. According to him, “Phase one target the front line and essential workers. Political office holders are part of the essential workers and healthcare workers are the front line. Phase two targets people of 50 years and above, these are senior citizens of the State. “Phase three targets people of 18 to 49 years of age with comorbidity of illness that can enhance COVID-19 case. And phase four targets people of all ages and status.” Niger state received 74,110 doses of the COVID-19 vaccines