Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), Imo State House of Assembly chapter, have embarked on an indefinite strike in compliance with the directives from the national leadership. The protesting workers, on Monday, locked the Assembly complex which prevented the Speaker and other lawmakers from gaining entrance to conduct their legislative activities. Comrade Victor Nnadi, the chairman of the association, while speaking to journalists in the state, decried the inability of the Federal Government to meet the demands of the workers. He said the call was for the implementation of the legislative financial autonomy which, according to him, was long overdue. Hear him, “our demand is the full implementation of the legislative financial autonomy that is in line with the constitutional provisions as well as an executive order number 10 of 2020 which was signed by the President. “We feel that if we get this financial autonomy, it will help to boost democracy and everybody will be better off. “All this while, we have been negotiating on this demand. Even in 2019, the President set up a Negotiation Committee. They worked and submitted their reports but, nothing had been done about it. “Already, we have exhausted all the extant labour laws for strike action. We gave them 21 days ultimatum, nothing happened. We gave them 14 days, nothing happened. And we gave them seven days which expired yesterday. This ultimatum was addressed to Mr. President and copied to all relevant authorities. “Mind you, this strike is a national action and not just in Imo State. So we are complying in accordance with the directives from our national headquarters. “But here in Imo, we feel with the Speaker, who is new and a good man. He has really shown us that truly, he cares for the staff welfare. But since this is a national issue, we can’t do otherwise. We tried to reach him and explain things to him and I guess he understands.” Reacting, the House Committee Chairman on Information, Ethics and Privileges, Johnson Duru assured that President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government is very much sensitive to the plight and welfare of the entire Nigeria workers. “I can assure you that he will look into the issue once again and find a lasting solution to it. “We only advise that the protesting workers do not take laws into their hands or do anything that will breach the existing peace and order in the state. “As you are aware, this a nationwide issue and not peculiar to Imo State. And here, our dear Governor, Dist. Sen. Hope Uzodinma has done marvellously well so far and deserves support from all and sundry to continue his good works in the overall interest and well-being of the people.”