The ECOWAS Court of Justice has ordered the immediate release of a Colombian businessman of Lebanese descent, Alex Nain Saab Moran. The court also ordered the payment of $200,000 as compensation for the moral prejudice suffered as a result of his arrest and incarceration. Alex Saab has been in detention since June 12, 2020 after his arrest on the island of Sal. The Venezuelan government insists the action violated international norms because the arrest notice was issued after he was taken into custody. In August 2020, a Cape Verde court approved the extradition of Saab to the United States. In January 2021, the Cape Verde Court of Appeal of Barlavento affirmed the ruling. Saab faces money laundering charges involving Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro and his government. In March 2020, the U.S. placed a $15million bounty on Maduro for information that could lead to his arrest for alleged drug-trafficking charges. Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the people deserve a government that serves their needs and does not betray their trust “by condoning or employing public officials that engage in illicit narcotics trafficking”. The Justice Department disclosed that the charges involved some 15 defendants between Maduro, political and military leaders in the country. Saab is accused of using an elaborate network of bank accounts in Venezuela and the U.S. to allow him and Maduro to profit from state-run food subsidy programmes. Furthermore, he and Alvaro Pulido Vargas are indicted for their alleged roles in a bribery scheme that took advantage of Venezuela’s government-controlled exchange rate. Delivering judgment on Monday, ECOWAS Court Justice Januaria Costa declared Saab’s arrest, while in transit through Cape Verde, and subsequent detention, as unlawful and a violation of Article 6 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights that guaranteed the right to personal liberty. Aside Costa, the judge rapporteur, others on the panel were Justices Edward Amoako Asante and Dupe Atoki. The court ordered the Cape Verdean authorities to “discontinue all proceedings and processes aimed at extraditing the Applicant to the USA” but declined all other claims, orders and injunctions sought by the applicant. The court observed that though the Venezuelan government later claimed Saab was travelling as its special envoy, he did not possess valid requirements qualifying him as a diplomat accredited in Cape Verde or another state or of high political office at the time of his arrest. The court dismissed the applicant’s claim of diplomatic immunity and inviolability as provided in Article 42 of the 1969 New York Convention on Special Missions. On the applicant’s allegation of arbitrary arrest and detention, the court concluded based on evidence before it, Cape Verde arrested Saab without informing him of the reasons for his arrest or presenting to him an arrest warrant or a red alert issued by Interpol for his extradition. The court said this violated the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime to which both the U.S. and Cape Verde are signatories, and contrary to Cape Verdean national laws. The Court held that Saab’s arrest and detention was arbitrary and illegal in violation of the respondent’s national laws and violated Article 6 the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and Article 9 (1) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Saab, through his counsels, Femi Falana and José Manuel Pinto Monteiro, initiated suit no ECW/CCJ/APP/43/20 alleging the violation of his rights to liberty and security, freedom from torture and inhuman treatment and freedom of movement. He challenged the legality of his arrest during his flight stopover and subsequent detention by the Cape Verdean authorities pending extradition at the request of the U.S. government. His lawyers argued that Saab was arrested without a warrant on-board an aircraft during a stopover to refuel in Cape Verde and arraigned in court on the third day contrary to laws of Cape Verde. The counsel further argued that the Cape Verdean government erred by arresting and detaining Saab whom they described as a special envoy on a diplomatic mission and was therefore entitled to diplomatic immunity. In a counter argument, Henrique Semedo Borges, counsel to Cape Verde, denied violating any of its national laws or international agreements. He submitted that the arrest and detention of Saab pending his extradition complied with the general principles of international cooperation in criminal matters. Borges further argued that the U.S. request for the Saab’s extradition was premised on allegations of crimes he committed on America’s territory and that he did not meet the requirements qualifying him as a special envoy with the associated immunities.