Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, yesterday, accused the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN, of planning to eliminate him. Ortom, during a meeting with President Buhari on Tuesday, said the leadership of MACBAN targeted him for elimination. 2. Vice President Yemi Osinabjo on Tuesday said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has been helping Nigerians to cope with the economic shock caused by COVID-19. He spoke yesterday at a virtual Chatham House interactive session. 3. The Middle Belt Forum, yesterday, blamed the security challenges bedevilling Nigeria on the complicity of the present administration, adding that in 2015, the security situation in the country had not deteriorated to the level it has gone now. President of the Forum, Bitrus Porgu disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Jos. 4. The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Tuesday said it envisioned ruling the country for the next 32 years. The Chairman of Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Mai Mala Buni, who unfolded the vision, disclosed the party had started working to achieve it. 5. Workers under the aegis of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), yesterday, grounded legislative activities in the House of Assemblies across the country. PASAN had declared an indefinite strike as a result of the refusal of the government to implement financial autonomy for the legislature as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution. 6. The military, yesterday, read the riots act to individuals and groups threatening to destabilise the corporate existence of Nigeria to drop their plans or face the firepower of security forces. Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. -Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru spoke at the first Commanding Officers’ Workshop 2021 in Uyo, Akwa Ibom. 7. Tension and apprehension gripped Bayelsa State yesterday over an attack on a Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) installation in Egbemoru community in Southern Ijaw Local Government by suspected militants. 8. The bitterness that trailed the September 19, 2020 Edo State Governorship election has continued, with Governor Godwin Obaseki ordering the demolition of a property belonging to the immediate past deputy governor, Dr. Plus Odubu. 9. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State yesterday, said that the 2023 general election may be sabotaged by insecurity if it is not tacked before the election time. Ortom stated this on Tuesday while briefing State House correspondents shortly after meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 214 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 13 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of registered infections across the country to 162,076.