Kwara and Oyo States, on Tuesday, held a joint security meeting at Ibadan in the bid to douse tension over the recent influx of herders into the state and protect lives and properties. The meeting according to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, which was at the instance of the Kwara state governor, focused among others on the security breaches involving herders and local communities in Oyo State. Also, the influx of displaced herders into Kwara State and the attendant socioeconomic and security issues, the need for political leaders to act fast to drown the voices of non-state actors who spread hate messages were discussed at the meeting. The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, and his Kwara State counterpart, further deliberated on the need for the two states and traditional rulers across border communities to share intelligence while security agencies do joint patrols to curb criminal activities. The host governor, Seyi Makinde, who read the resolution at the end of the joint meeting, said ” We acknowledged the fact that non-state actors are getting upper hands in communicating and spreading hatred within the country and we asked our leaders to speak with one voice, especially at the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. “We have to be firm. We have to be decisive in dealing with security challenges the country is faced with,” the resolution declared. “We have also noticed the fact that our intelligence gathering efforts have to be deepened. “Some of the situations that we faced recently, showed that we were only able to react instead of being able to act before those issues erupted and this is due to intelligence failure,” the resolution further added. The resolution urged traditional rulers in border towns of Oyo and Kwara states to come together in fostering unity and exchange of information, which would help security agencies to deal proactively with the situation instead of being reactive. The two states agreed to set up a more detailed working team to discuss issues with a wider national ramifications. They noted that ” Asking some people to leave Oyo state, has created issues in Kwara state with internally displaced persons now spread across Kwara state. “They are in 13 villages across seven local government areas of Kwara State, with its attendant challenges of maintaining those individuals.” On the delegation with governor Abdulrazaq, were the SSG, Professor Mamman Saba Jibril, the former Special Adviser on Special Duties, Yinka Aluko, the SSA on Security, Muyideen Aliyu, and a member of the state House of Assembly, Ahmed Saidu Baba. Also on the delegation were the state police commissioner, Brigade Commander, Nigeria Army, Sobi Barracks, Director SSS, Commandant NSCDC, Director NDLEA, and Comptroller, NIS, Kwara state.