The Oyo State House of Assembly, on Tuesday urged the state government to, without wasting more time, provide relief materials to traders whose property were recently gutted by fire in Oyo town. DAILY POST recalls that property worth millions of naira were recently gutted by fire during a fire incident that occurred at Sabo market in Oyo State. During the fire incident, no fewer than eight shops occupied by farm produce worth millions of naira were destroyed. The Oyo State fire service confirmed the incident to DAILY POST when the incident occurred. The State House of Assembly on Tuesday urged the executive arm of government led by Engineer Seyi Makinde to put measures in place towards reconstructing the affected shops in the market. The House also urged the State Government through the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to provide relief materials for traders whose shops and properties were destroyed in the inferno. This was sequel to recommendations made by Minority Leader of the Assembly, Hon. Asimiyu Alarape. Alarape, while presenting a Matter of Urgent Public Importance on the need to reconstruct shops gutted by fire and provide relief to victims of fire incident at Sabo market, Oyo town, further appealed to the State Governor to upgrade the market by providing modern lock-up shops, administrative blocks, Warehouses, cold room storage facilities, clinic, police post, toilets and potable water among other facilities. Alarape was supported by Hon Kazeem Isiaka Tunde (Oyo East/West). The duo while speaking, commended the State Governor for the reconstruction of Akesan market razed by fire on January 5,2020. They urged Makinde to extend the gesture to Sabo market. According to the lawmakers, the Sabo market is among the major food markets in the town hence compensating the affected traders and reconstructing the market on time will help in assuaging the monumental loss experienced by the traders and putting the market back in full operation. Deputy Speaker of the House, Hon. Abiodun Fadeyi called on members of the public to always take necessary precautions towards preventing fire outbreaks. Speaker of the House, Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin harped on the need for residents to support the efforts of the State Government towards preventing fire outbreaks. He said, “Recall that four Operational vehicles were presented to the Oyo State Fire Service to aid the fight against fire outbreak. This is a further demonstration of the importance the Oyo State Government accord to matters and issues of safety of lives and properties of the citizenry. “The State Fire Service now has trucks to work with courtesy of the present administration. The Governor just a few days ago donated a fire truck to Ibadan Airport. The issue of Sabo market is equally pathetic and I am sure our Government will do something about it.”