Some unknown armed men on Saturday night attacked police operatives attached to the Safer Highway Patrol of the Bauchi State Police Command patrolling Bauchi-Jos road at Nabordo in Toro Local Government Area of the State. The attack, which occurred at about 9:30 pm, led to the death of a 35-year-old Inspector Mukhtar Ibrahim and a resident of the town, one Uba Samaila (33), who was said to have been hit by a stray bullet but later died at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Teaching Hospital (ATBH) while receiving treatment. According to the command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, who described the attack as “a very unfortunate one”, the police had since recovered the service rifle of the deceased Inspector, adding that more personnel had been deployed in the area. “Bauchi State Police Command regrets to announce that on Saturday, 14th of March 2021, at about 2130hrs an attack was unleashed at the Naborodo safer highway patrol axis of the Bauchi State Police Command, on police officers patrolling Bauchi-Jos road by unknown armed men. “The incident, which was indeed a very unfortunate one, resulted to the death of a police officer, Inspector Mukhtar Ibrahim, male, 35yrs who was shot dead by the assailant and one Uba Samaila, civilian, male a 33-yrs-old resident of Naborodo town, who was hit by a stray bullet, but later died at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Teaching Hospital (ATBH) while receiving treatment. “The service rifle of the deceased with breach NO.32486 has been recovered by the police and corpses of the victims have been released to the families according to Islamic rites,” Wakil, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said. The police spokesman added that, “more patrol teams have been deployed to the area while security men have embarked on stop and search with a view to tracking down the hoodlums. “So far, calm has been restored in the area and citizens can go about their normal businesses without let or hindrance.” While stating that the state Commissioner of Police, Sylvester Abiodun Alabi, has ordered a full scale investigation of the attack, the PPRO said that the CP regretted the ugly incident and had since condoled with the bereaved family over the irreplaceable loss. Wakil stated that the command would not relent on investigating the matter, adding that it would dig deep and find a lasting solution to the security breach. “Our resilience as enforcers of the law has been tested by these criminals, but our resolve remains firm and resolute in fishing them out and serving justice adequately,” Wakil affirmed.