The Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to leave it out of the crises rocking the main opposition party, describing their situation as irredeemable. The call was contained in a statement by the spokesperson of the ruling party in Osun, Comrade Wole Adunola and made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday. According to the APC spokesperson, the call was made in response to the allegation levelled against the party by the factional chairman of the PDP, Soji Adagunodo, in one of the national dailies last week, where the factional chairman alleged that the APC was responsible for the crisis in the party. The APC Publicity Secretary described the PDP as a community of lazy individuals who lacked the required competence to provide virile opposition to the ruling party, let alone thinking of dislodging her from the helms of affairs in the State in any contest. The statement reads, “We are constrained to dwell into the crises rocking the Peoples Democratic Party but for the fact that the two major factions have continuously attributed their woes to us at a different time speaks how empty they are as a party and that indeed they have run out of deep thoughts and critical thinking that can put the party in the right position among its peers in the state. “You will all recall that since the beginning of their leadership tussle particularly the chairmanship issue which has seen it change hands five times, various interest and opinion moulders within the party have been pointing accusing fingers at us. “For instance when Osun State High Court, Ikirun reinstated Soji Adagunodo, after his sack by the national leadership of the party, the other faction alleged we used the state apparatus to protect Adagunodo. However, now that a superior court said otherwise, the same Adagunodo is crying foul. You can see that their thinking fails the critical analytic test. “The truth is PDP from national to the grassroots lacks direction and they are not prepared for the situation they found themselves in, neither are they ready to learn from us, hence the present show of shame. “They are used to money bag politics, mishandling of state resources for their selfish interest and they have forgotten that such a day exists when they won’t have access to the public purse. “We believe wholeheartedly in the democratic ideals that put an opposition party not just an important integral part of democracy but also being an indispensable entity that put the government of the day on toes. It is obvious that the major opposition in the state has left these crucial functions undone. “This is as a result of the needless leadership tussle which has engulfed it since she lost the 2018 gubernatorial poll. It is worrisome that within four years tenure, Osun PDP has changed its chairmanship position five times. “At a time, it was Soji Adagunodo. At another time, it was Atidaade. Later Bisi Sunday, Soji Adagunodo, and now Bisi Sunday through the decision of the court of appeal in Akure last week. “We can afford to assist them to bring the two major factions together and harmonise their interest, if not for anything but just to be a responsible opposition. “The idea of blaming us for their woes should stop henceforth, the people of Osun must have seen that PDP is not competent enough to manage the affairs of the state. “Going by our antecedent and performance in Osun with the way Governor Gboyega Oyeyola is getting things done appropriately, beyond 2022, our party’s flag shall be kept flying in the State.”