Olusegun Bamgbose, a chieftain of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, has warned that Nigerians will storm the Presidential Villa and Government Houses soon to seek refuge. He noted that Government Houses at the moment seem to be the only places with assurance of security, as the situation in the country gets more worrisome and no respite. The senior lawyer is worried by the daily reports of abductions, kidnappings, killings and wanton destruction of properties by armed bandits, a situation which according to him, has almost crippled the economic activities in the country. “Farmers can no longer go to farms with assurances that they will not be killed or kidnapped,” he said while addressing embers of the NNPP in Akure, Ondo State on Monday. “Travelers have to embark on prayers and fastings before they travel. The crisis of Fulani herdsmen is yet to be resolved. “There have been clashes, attacks and killings almost on a daily basis. Nigeria is almost a jungle. There is lawlessness here and there. “Foreign investors are not forthcoming for fear of their lives. There is hardly a day without reports of banditry, herdsmen, gunmen and insurgency. “Millions have been displaced across the nation. Nigerians are living in fears as no one knows who will be the next victim. “The Buhari administration has failed to appropriately address the issues of security satisfactorily to the happiness of the citizens. “It’s obvious from this ugly scenario that Nigerians would soon storm Aso Rock and Government Houses for refuge. This is simply because they are safe havens for now. “It’s double jeopardy, the economy is bad as inflation hits hard on the hapless citizens,on the other hand there is high insecurity ravaging the land. “Buhari seems to be overwhelmed by the security challenges confronting us as a nation. This is certainly a very sad and unfortunate situation. “Where are we heading to, with all the resources at our disposal as a nation, we find it difficult to combat insecurity. Let’s tell ourselves the truth, our nation is in a serious mess. “We have certainly missed the mark. The Buhari I supported and voted for in 2015 is not the Buhari I see now. We cannot fold our hands and watch innocent Nigerians die everyday. “Let Buhari prove to us through his actions that he is the retired General we voted for. The time for action is now. Let Buhari prove himself as a retired General. The cabals should keep off because Nigerians voted for Buhari, not the cabals.”