Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, requested the Senate to confirm the nomination of Ahmad Shaba Halilu as the substantive Director-General of the National Space Research and Development Agency, NASRDA. In a letter to the President of the Senate yesterday, Buhari said he was acting in line with Section 14 (1) (2) of the NASRDA Act 2010. 2. The OPC members who were detained after they arrested Isikilu Wakili, a Fulani herdsman, were on Tuesday released by the Oyo State Police Command. 3. Troops of the Special Forces Brigade on Tuesday eliminated 33 Boko Haram fighters at Chikingudu community in Borno State. The terrorists were killed after troops, on a clearance mission in Messene, Hausari and Chikungudu villages, engaged them in a gun battle. 4. The Nigerian Youths Movement for Tinubu (NYMT), on Tuesday, declared that the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu was the perfect person to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari. The group urged Tinubu to join the 2023 presidential race. 5. Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) will this morning begin a nationwide protest at the National Assembly (NASS), Abuja and other state assemblies against the planned removal of minimum wage from the Exclusive Legislative list. The NLC had begun mobilisation for the protest from Monday through Tuesday’s night with all its national administrative. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said that climate change across the globe has contributed to the rising insurgency globally. Buhari stated this at the high-level meeting of the African Union Peace and Security Council (AU-PSC) on securing sustainable peace in Africa. 7. President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, said the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri railway would reactivate economic activities along the Eastern corridor which have been affected by insecurity. The president said this in Abuja yesterday during the virtual ground-breaking of the project. 8. The British Government on Tuesday said it is set to return £4.2 million being part of funds so far recovered from friends and family members of former Delta Governor, James Ibori, to the Nigerian government. British High Commission to Nigeria, Mrs Catriona Laing, disclosed this in Abuja, yesterday. 9. Justice S. S. Ogunsanya of the Lagos State High Court, on Tuesday, sentenced a former General Manager of the Dangote Industries Limited, Mojisola Aladejobi, to seven years’ imprisonment over a $32,000 insurance fraud. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 346 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 17 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 159,252.