A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, on Saturday debunked reports that he beat his wife, Precious Chikwendu while she was pregnant with their triplets. The PDP Chieftain said his ex-wife was an ‘abuser and adulterer.’ He was reacting to a suit filed by his wife, seeking custody of their four children produced by the marriage. She also urged the court to order the ex-minister to pay N3.438 million to her monthly for the upkeep of the children. Precious who accused Fani-Kayode of striping her naked told the court that her kids have been emotionally traumatized since they were separated in August 2, 2020. But Fani-Kayode in a statement by his Media Consultant, Oladimeji Olaiya, said Precious is unfit to be a mother and has shown nothing but cruelty to her children whom she never cared for. He accused the ex-beauty queen of trying to kill him, their four children and seduce his friends while he was in detention. “We believe that the children’s lives would be in danger if they are with her and we shall prove this in court. For the avoidance of doubt, at no time did Chief Fani-Kayode expose his children to danger and he has always provided them with the best of care including 12 nannies and nurses who did all the work even when their mother was in the house and whom she herself employed. Fani-Kayode further stated that Precious on one occasion cut two people with a knife and almost bit off the finger of a third when she was trying to attack and kill her own children and husband with two knives. ”Thirty people witnessed this and we have it on video. We urge members of the public to wait until the truth is revealed about Chikwendu, her mental and physical abuse of her own children, her mental illness, her numerous attempts to murder Chief Fani-Kayode and his four children, her adulterous ways, her unfathomable cruelty, her gold-digging ways, her violence and so much more before they make up their minds. “This is an action that will leave our client with no other option but to expose Chikwendu’s lies, wicked and evil plots and life-threatening actions against him over the years: issues he had hitherto kept to himself in order to save her from the horrifying indignity and whatever shame is left of her following such revelations. ”Chikwendu’s only pastime was to post pictures and words on Instagram and sleep with men outside.She also tried to seduce a number of Chief Fani-Kayode’s friends when he was in detention and extort money from them.” The PDP Chieftain explained that she has refused to visit the kids even after she was granted access to the children 7 months ago. He alleged that Precious walked out of the house on her own because she claimed she was hearing voices, adding that she abandoned her husband and four young children to meet other men outside “She also speaks to the children regularly on the phone but is always threatening the lives of their staff and even screaming at the children themselves in an uncontrollable rage on many occasions.” “After she finished having her fun, Chief Fani-Kayode refused to let her back into his house and resolved to keep her out of his life. ”Chikwendu claims that she was stripped and drugged. This is not true. Rather she was held down by a contingent of 4 policemen and policewomen in the presence and under the orders of the DPO of Asokoro Police Station and in the presence of her Aunty Joy and at least 30 frightened and agitated police officers, workers and members of the household and family after which she was sedated with an injection by a Dr. from the psychiatric hospital. “This was after she attacked her husband and children with two very large knives and attempted to kill them and after she held them hostage upstairs in their rooms for three hours whilst in a drunken craze and threatening to kill everyone including the police who had been called to rescue their lives.”