The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the revelation of another $2.5bn arms purchase scandal in which officials of the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration was named is another ugly testament to the stench of corruption oozing from the current administration. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan National Publicity Secretary of the party said the exposed contract scam of $2.5 billion as well as the outright disappearance of $1 billion, earlier revealed by the NSA, shows the level of corruption among APC leaders. The party has now asked the Buhari Presidency to explain both the $2.5 billion and $1 billion alleged missing funds. “The party alerts that with this fresh $2.5 billion arms scandal, reportedly involving the National Security Adviser (NSA) Gen. Babagana Monguno, who had earlier revealed that $1 billion also for arms cannot be traced, an alarming $3.5 billion (N1.3 trillion) meant for the purchase of weapons to secure our country under the Buhari administration has been looted.” “The APC leaders and their agents are stealing funds meant for arms while our citizens are daily marauded, pillaged and murdered by terrorists, bandits and kidnappers. “In fact, the unending exposure of sleaze in the security architecture of the Buhari-led administration has further heightened apprehensions in the public space that the security situation has been turned into a huge racket for corrupt enrichment of sneaky APC leaders and the cabal in the Buhari Presidency. ” The statement said. Mr. Kola further stressed that “It is more distressing that instead of standing on the side of the people to demand a clean-up of the system and recovery of the stolen funds, the APC, as a party, is rather desperate to justify acts of corruption, because its leaders and officials of its government are involved. “Our party demands that the Buhari Presidency should come clean and offer explanations on both the $2.5 billion and $1 billion. “Furthermore, the PDP restates its call to the National Assembly to conduct a joint open inquest into the funds and other monies drawn purportedly for the security of our nation under President Muhammadu Buhari’s watch.”