A coalition of civil society organizations has thrown its weight behind the Senate Minority Leader and Senator representing Abia South Senatorial District, Enyinaya Abaribe, for sponsoring the Armed Forces Service Commission Bill and moving a motion for its consideration on the floor of the Senate. The group under the aegis of Coalition of Civil Society for Peace and National Security, who described the bill as timely considering the nation’s security problems, said it observed they were being fueled by ethnic factors. It flayed the disposition of some senators towards the bill but tasked the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and all other senators to support Abaribe, to see to its success. The group said the total disregard to the nation’s federal character principles and elevation of ethnicity in considering service chiefs had made the Armed Forces Service Commission Bill a necessity. In a statement by its National Coordinator, Dr Mohammed Nagogo and National Secretary, Funke Ademola, respectively, the group said it found consolation in the fact that the sponsor was asked to amend some clauses and re-present the bill for consideration. “We write to strongly commend Senator Eyinaya Abaribe for his courage and sense of patriotism for sponsoring a Bill that seeks for an establishment of Armed Forces Commission. “Although the bill was rejected due to some sentiments, it would have addressed some critical issues that are hindering performance in our Armed Forces, “the statement said. The coalition said the bill would address the issue of injustice being perpetrated against some geopolitical zones of the country and encourage commitment and hard work from members of the Armed Forces. ‘’We are surprised that such an important bill that was capable of ending issues promoting insecurity in Nigeria would be discarded in the manner we observed at the National Assembly.” “Though it was said that the bill be amended and re-presented by the mover, we hope it was not a ploy to completely discard it. Recall that Senators were on Tuesday, divided over a bill that sought to establish an Armed Forces Service Commission sponsored by Abaribe. However, after a closed-door session, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan appealed to the Minority Leader to withdraw Order 73 of the proposed bill which called for a division.