Senator Magnus Abe, who was the factional leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Rivers State has announced the closure of all parallel APC offices in the state. Abe who at a media briefing in Port Harcourt reacted to the Supreme Court judgement that laid the APC crisis in Rivers State to rest also congratulated Isaac Abbot-Ogbogbula as the duly recognized Chairman of the party in the state. The Senator said the crisis in the Rivers Chapter of the APC was not about who controls the structure of the party but about party members who felt cheated by the activities of some leaders of the party. Senator Abe urged the National leadership of the APC to consolidate on the verdict of the Supreme Court and bring lasting peace to the party. “We agree with the learned Justices that those issues cannot be effectively and finally resolved by the courts, the courts, several times condemned the actions of the party and acknowledged the injustices meted out to members contrary to the party’s own rules and norms. “Indeed, all the courts in this country, from the High Court to the Court of Appeal, then to the Supreme Court itself pronounced on these issues, condemned them but all the pronouncements of the courts ended in frustration, as the party to this day has never acknowledged any wrongdoing neither has the summary exclusion and expulsion of some party members been addressed. “In the coming days, we will carefully watch the statements and actions and utterances of the party as it is the resolution of these issues that will bring lasting peace to the party and restore it’s standing, not only amongst its members but also in the eyes of the justice-loving Nigerian public especially Rivers men and women. “We congratulate Barr. Ogbogbula and his team and advice all our members with conflicting claims to any alternative structures within the APC to immediately drop all such claims. All alternate party offices in the name of APC across the state should revert to private use. “Finally, I want to thank members of the party who have been resolute in their demand for justice fairness and internal democracy within the party. It is clear that there are other political options for achieving our desires,” Abe said.