Popular On-Air Personality, OAP, Ifedayo Olarinde, a.k.a Daddy Freeze, has been fined the sum of N5 million by a High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, for committing adultery. In a court document with the suit no PHC/403MC/2012, one Mrs Benedicta Odekina filed the petition, her husband, Paul Odekina is 1st Respondent and Freeze is the Co-Respondent. In the court ruling, which has now gone viral on social media, the court ordered Daddy Freeze, to pay the sum of N5m for committing adultery with Benedicta Elechi. The controversial OAP, known for attacking popular pastors and religious clerics in the country, was ordered by the court to pay the money to Mr Odekina, who was married to Benedicta Elechi at the time of the adulterous act. Justice Akpughunum, who presided over the matter, ruled that the N5m was “damages for depriving Odekina amiable consort of his wife”. The document read in part, “The sum of N5,000,000 is awarded against Ifedayo Olarinde (the 2nd Cross Respondent to the Cross Petition) as damages for depriving the Cross Petitioner of the amiable consort of his wife (Petitioner/1st Cross Respondent) and for the injury suffered as a result of his adultery with the Petitioner/Cross Respondent. “An Order of Injunction is hereby granted, preventing Ifedayo Olarinde ― the Co-Respondent to the Cross Petition ― from having access or dealing whatsoever with the children of the marriage until they attain the age of majority.” Justice Akpughunum also dissolved the marriage between Paul and Benedicta as a result of Benedicta’s adultery with Daddy Freeze. Freeze is popular with his criticism of the payment of tithe and offerings in Churches. Pastors such as Enoch Adeboye of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Living Faith Church’s Bishop David Oyedepo, among others, have always been his targets. Daddy Freeze had in some of his controversial posts condemned tithing saying it was a false doctrine for Christianity as Jesus nor his disciples never collected tithes.