Governor Gboyega Oyetola has admonished citizens and residents not to compromise the safety protocols and guidelines put in place by government and health authorities against the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic. Oyetola called on the residents to be wary of the adverse effects of the second wave of the deadly virus which he said had caused untimely deaths across the globe. He said this on Saturday while addressing invitees at the special prayer session organised to commemorate the 10th anniversary of his late mother’s death in Iragbiji, Osun State. He advocated the frequent and consistent use of face masks and hand sanitisers as a panacea for safety, warning that the virus is no respecter of persons regardless of status and place in the society. “I am using this occasion to appeal to our people to take COVID-19 more seriously than before and stop insinuating that the virus has been eliminated. “As we can see and hear, the second wave is more dangerous, more deadly and devastating, hence the need for all to adhere strictly to all the safety protocols and guidelines. “As a government, we will not relent in our efforts to continue to provide quality, adequate and affordable healthcare services as part of our administration’s resolve to build a healthy society. “I am assuring our people that the gesture to further support the quality healthcare delivery through the provision of vaccines to combat the spread of the virus would be taken as a priority as soon as we take the delivery of the vaccines,” Oyetola said. Governor Oyetola who described his late mother, Alhaja Wulaimot Oyetola as a woman of virtue and an epitome of womanhood, said he is what he is today because of all his parents inculcated in him and his siblings. He urged parents and guardians to take good care of their children and always look after their welfare, saying, “this is the only way to justify why they are brought to life.” The occasion was attended by the Governor’s father, Alhaji Hammed Oyetola; the Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi; the Senator representing Osun Central, Ajibola Bashiru; the Ataoja of Osogbo Oba Jimoh Olanipekun; Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi led other traditional rulers; the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji; members of the State Executive Council, Islamic clerics, among others.