The Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello has decried the low level of participation of women in the political process in the state. Bello, who said this in Minna at the Get Involved Leadership Training organized by the Lead Generation Initiative said the state is lacking in achieving gender equality in the political sphere because the women have refused to participate in politics. He explained that the state needs 40% of women in elective offices and as political appointees in the state. Urging women to take part in the political process, the governor noted that, “there are very few ladies participating in the political process in Niger State. We need more women to participate in the political process. We are trying to be gender-sensitive. We need 40 per cent of women in elective offices and as political Appointees” “Women are the most reliable political officers. Women chop but they chop small because they remember others but the men, it is different, because they will eat and take everything away including the plate. We must do something about women participation in the state.” He also called on the youths to get involved in the political process to contribute their quota to the growth and development of the state and nation rather than stay on the sidelines to complain and criticize. “The situation in Nigeria requires all of us to collectively join hands to fix Nigeria. Everyone, most especially the youth, need to play their roles to move Nigeria forward. Stop folding your hands to watch without getting involved. Stop complaining and get involved.” Applauding the Lead Generation Initiative for coming up with the programme to motivate youths to get involved in the leadership process, Bello expressed optimism that it will plant a seed that will spur them to actively participate in the political process. The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Hon. Shina Abiola Peller in his speech said the youths need to get informed, show interest in national discourse and shatter the thinking that leadership is for only the elders. Peller who is the Legislator representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency in the House of Representative said the Initiative was formed to breed a new generation of leaders who will take active responsibility for leadership in their various communities through active participation in the social-political process. He explained that the nation cannot be successful until the youths contribute their quota in leadership even as the youth cannot be successful if they fail to get actively involved in politics and nation-building “We have broken the stereotype and shattered the thinking glass ceiling that leadership is only meant for the elderly. We as the youths need to have adequate representation in leadership. We deserve to have a seat at the place where the decision is made, ” the lawmaker added.