Five armed Bandits were reportedly killed in a gun exchange with vigilantes in Lapai local government area of Niger State on Sunday. DAILY POST learnt that the armed bandits were waiting to receive a ransom and food items around Gulu village in Azza community, however, information got to the vigilantes, who swung into action in Fapo and Ebbo town. The vigilante group stormed the area where the Bandits were waiting for their supply and overpowered them, forcing them to retreat. A source in the area said the incident occurred on Sunday at about 12 noon when two persons that were going to pay ransom coincidentally met while talking with the bandits giving the description and direction to follow to deliver the money. According to the source, when those that went to pay ransom suddenly saw the vigilantes and narrated the situation, after receiving instructions from the bandits to go back and buy them food and call units. However, upon receiving the information, the vigilantes were said to have reinforced and attacked the bandits, which resulted in the exchange of fire killing five of the armed bandits and four men who were earlier abducted. In a fight that lasted over two hours, it was further learned that the armed bandits retreated while four of their members who sustained injuries were arrested. A resident of Gulu who does not want his name in print told our Correspondent that earlier on Saturday night a woman appeared in the town naked and claimed she had escaped from the kidnappers as a result of rainfall and leaving behind seven other persons comprised of four men tied to the trees and three women. According to her, ” the woman was hosted by the Gulu district head where she narrated her story and led to the vigilantes mobilizing to search and rescue them. However, upon arrival, the vigilantes discovered that the four men kidnapped have been shot dead and the whereabouts of the three women could not be ascertained.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Wasiu Abiodun could not be reached for comments as his phone was switched off at the time of filing this report.