Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. A group identified as Fulani Nationality Movement, FUNAM, yesterday, claimed responsibility for the attack on Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State. Their claim was contained in a statement by one Umar Amir Shehu. 2. The Cross River State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ben Ukpekpi was reportedly kidnapped yesterday by gunmen. 3. The Kaduna State Government, on Sunday, said suspected armed bandits killed one in Chikun local government area, just as troops rescued a kidnapped boy in the Kachia local government area of the State. This was confirmed in a statement issued by Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs. 4. The Northern States Governors’ Forum, NSGF, yesterday, described as disturbing the Saturday’s attack carried out on the convoy of the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom by gunmen suspected to be armed Fulani herdsmen. 5. The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom on Sunday, said the recent spike in security crisis in Nigeria, including the attack on him by suspected herdsmen, indicates that the country is sick and on life support gasping for breath. 6. Anambra Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has raised the alarm over the growing level of insecurity in the state. The governor in an address yesterday said the state was under siege by criminals, even as he vowed to end the ugly situation. 7. Association of South East Town Unions (ASETU), yesterday, cried out over alleged occupation of farmlands in the zone by herdsmen. ASETU’s National President, Emeka Dive, spoke when he received an award of recognition from the Forum of Imo Columnists and Editors in Owerri. 8. Militants under the auspices of Unyekisong Akwa Ibom have ordered all multinational oil companies operating in the state to vacate with immediate effect. In a statement signed by the Leader and the Assistant Leader of the group, General Dede Udofia and Major Ibanga Ekang, the group said the vacation notice was due to the unwholesome atrocities committed by the oil companies in some communities. 9. The clamour for power shift got a push on Sunday from the former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, who called for zoning and rotational presidency among the six geo-political zones. Gen. Gowon said rotating the office is key to peace, tranquillity and development. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, on Sunday night, confirmed 86 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in just 7 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded infections so far to 161,737.