The Deputy Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Uche Ugwu on Wednesday said those attacking Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration on social media were doing so out of ignorance. DAILY POST reports that the lawmaker made the remarks during a media launch of Enugu State Project Enlightenment and Development Programme, with the theme: “The giant strides of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.” The programme was organised by the Senior Special Assistant, SSA, on special duty, to the Governor, Hon. Chibuzo Anekwe. He said several people were unaware that despite the unique economic challenges the government found itself, the Governor Ugwuanyi-led administration had built more infrastructure. The lawmaker said that the well-considered agenda of the Ugwuanyi administration, which prioritises infrastructure, had put up developmental projects in every part of the State despite lean resources. According to him, “The governor is performing based on the circumstances on ground. When he assumed office in 2015, the country slid into recession. Thereafter, the world witnessed Covid-19 pandemic and the governor made a promise to develop the rural economy. He has been living up to the expectations. We are here to tell the world that the Governor is doing well. “The people should take advantage of different empowerment programs going on in Enugu. The governor has been training and empowering people on Agriculture and other empowerment programs to reduce unemployment rate in the State.” Also speaking, the organiser of the program, Anekwe, disclosed that the State government had done tremendously well in infrastructure and empowerment programs despite the economic woes of the country. “We are here for enlightenment on the giant stride of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s infrastructural development. Even with all the publicity from the media unit of government, people still seem not to come to terms that the governor has done tremendously well. “Not because they deliberately don’t want to but because there are some certain things they need to know before they can pass their verdicts. They need to know the social economic environment this government is operating within. “The government is operating within an uncommon social economic environment. The government came into being in 2015, barely 3 months the country slided into economic recession. “Anything that touches the financial system touches the whole system because other systems work through the financial system. There was a time when every state existed through bailout. “There was a time some states were not able to sustain the salary of workers but Ugwuanyi maintained the paying of salary on 25th of every month”, he said. He said that Ugwuanyi has done well in road infrastructure in all the rural areas, stressing that the villagers can now transport their farm produce to markets. He said that the peace restored in the state as a result of strategic objectives of Gov Ugwuanyi’s administration had caused the influx of people in the State, thereby creating more opportunity for youths to delve into skill acquisition. He advised the youths to take advantage of Skill and Medium Entrepreneurs, empowerment created by governor Ugwuanyi rather than being ideal and criticising the state government. “Why we have more youths in this event is because the youths are social media mobile that wield opinion and wish to complain that there are no jobs, but you have to sharpen your brain and acquire skills to be employed”, he said.