The Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has described Oba AbdulRauf Olawale Adedeji II, the late Akirun of Ikirun as a monarch who placed a high priority on the welfare of his people, cared for them, and also demonstrated strong concern and commitment to the development of Ikirun land. He also described the late monarch as one who respected other traditional rulers, was a strong supporter of his administration and ensured that the ancient town witnessed tremendous development, peace and stability during his reign. Governor Oyetola made the commendation earlier today during the 40th Day Fidau prayer session held in honour of the departed monarch in Ikirun. While extolling the virtues of the late Akirun, the governor noted that death was inevitable as the demise of the monarch had further testified to the fact that death is unpredictable and an end that every mortal will face. In his words, “Oba Adedeji was a respected father and strong supporter of our administration. We will miss him for his counsel, wisdom and courage. Baba will also be long remembered for his impacts, achievements and outstanding legacies. “On behalf of the Government and the people of Osun, I once again commiserate with the people of Ikirun over the passing of our beloved father and leader, the late Akirun of Ikirun, Oba AbdulRauf Olawale Adedeji II.” He called on the people to emulate the virtues of the late king and tread the path that would impact positively on the lives of others. Speaking on behalf of other traditional rulers in the state, the Timi of Ede, Oba Munirudeen Adesola Lawal, said with the Akirun’s death the traditional council in the state had lost a rare gem. Oba Lawal described the deceased as a truthful person adding that it gladdened his heart that the late monarch was used by God to transform Ikirun. The Asiwaju of Ikirunland, Chief Gazali Lawal in his remark described Oba Adedeji as an unusual traditional ruler whose reign attracted countless monumental achievements to the ancient town. Chief Lawal lauded the transformation recorded during the reign of the late Akirun just as he prayed God to grant him eternal rest. DAILY POST recalls that Oba AbdulRauf Olawale Adedeji II, Akirun of Ikirun land died on Tuesday 2nd of February, 2021.