The Federal Government has approved the establishment of Sim swap centres by Mobile Network Operators, MNOs, across the local government areas of the country. The approval was disclosed during a meeting of the ministerial Task Force on the NIN-SIM registration chaired by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami. During the meeting, the federal government also approved the extension of the tenure of National Identity Number, NIN, enrolment Agent Licenses for MNOs from 1 to 5 years. A statement jointly signed by Ikechukwu Adinde, Kayode Adegoke, Director, Public Affairs Head, Corporate Communications, Nigerian Communications Commission and Nigeria Identify Management Commission, respectively, said the steps were to simplify the enrolment process for agents of NIN. The statement reads partly: “A number of resolutions were taken at the meeting, including the following: Approval was given to MNOs for the establishment of dedicated SIM Swap Centres across the Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria. “Approval was given for the extension of the tenure of NIN Enrolment Agent Licenses for MNOs from 1 to 5 years in consideration of their satisfactory performance, subject to continuous monitoring. “This is a deliberate effort of the Federal Government to simplify the enrolment process for Nigerians and legal residents. “The Technical Committee was mandated to complete the development of a new SIM issuance strategy that cannot be compromised. This will ensure that there is no repeat of the past process that was compromised through pre-registration by some agents. “A Multi-Sectoral Adhoc Committee was tasked to immediately complete the review of the processes for new SIM activations for legal residents staying in Nigeria for less than 24 months. The membership of the Committee was drawn from NCC, NIMC, Nigeria Immigration Service and the Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON). “Furthermore, MNOs that already have Service Centres in important and critical locations in LGAs, are expected to upgrade these Centres to a level where they can qualify as SIM Swap Centres in order to reduce the challenges associated with the SIM Swap/Replacement process for the citizens. “The purpose is to bring SIM Swap Centres closer to Nigerians regardless of their location.”