An All Progressives Congress(APC) chieftain and 1993 Social Democratic Party’s presidential aspirant, Chief Reuben Famuyibo, has declared his intention to run for the 2022 governorship seat in Ekiti State. The business mogul said for the sake of equity, it would be expedient to allow an Ado Ekiti indegene to clinch the number one political position, saying every legitimate political arsenal will be deployed to actualise the dream. Famuyibo spoke in Ado Ekiti, on Monday, while consulting with elders and political heavyweights in the capital city on the need to key into the dream of having a native of the town becoming the governor in 2022. Famuyibo, who slugged it out with ex-Governor, Niyi Adebayo during the Alliance for Democracy governorship primaries in 1999, said he has a blueprint that would bring development to Ekiti in the areas of industrialization, job creation, social security, free education and healthcare policies as well as other pivotal sectors of the economy. Famuyibo said : “I have consulted with some elders and influential politicians in and outside Ekiti State before I took this decision to contest the 2022 governorship election. “I appeal to the APC stalwarts and all Ekiti people to join their faith with mine to make the state a better place for all and sundry. Our past leaders have tried, but I think I can do better if given the opportunity to serve.” Famuyibo said his team has begun aggressive mobilisation of people to back his aspiration via a house- to -house consultations of party leaders and seek their blessings. He said his well encapsulated blueprint is about “youth empowerment, industrialization , modern and technologically inclined education and agriculture, enhanced healthcare delivery and women empowerment.” The legal practitioner stated that he would be more committed than anyone else in the development of the state being a member of the team that worked relentlessly for the creation of Ekiti on October 1, 1996, during Gen Sani Abacha’s military regime.