Nigerians have come out to express divergent views over the agitations of a group, the Oduduwa Republic which recently introduced a currency known as Fadaka. Their views were also extended to certain individuals who are also calling for the Yoruba nation to secede from the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Those who spoke to DAILY POST, advanced various reasons for their condemnation and support. Agboola Murtala, a media commentator said he doesn’t see the creation of the Oduduwa Republic as a solution to the problems at hand. He explained that as it is, the Egbas and to some extent Ijebus are the dominant groups within the Yoruba nation. According to him, “All the Yoruba national leaders, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, President Olusegun Obasanjo, Chief Ernest Shonekan, Lt. Gen. Oladapo Diya, Sir Adetokunbo Ademola, Prof. Wole Soyinka and others are from Ogun State. “There are challenges to which the Yorubas have contributed. Yoruba support installed this national government even though the proponents have been short-changed. We have genuine reasons to fight but not for the creation of a state. Nigeria can be better off if we sit down and resolve our issues. Our politicians are our problem because they are selfish and self-centred. As for the new currency, I don’t know anything about it. Is it in the proposed Oduduwa Republic or in Nigeria?” A former Osun Chairman, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Seun Adeoye affirmed that “Nations will always come out from nations. In case those agitating for the Oduduwa Republic get it done, I can assure you that in years after others will come to demand independence from it. It may be Ekiti, Ijesa, Ijebu, Oyo, Ibadan or Ketu republics. “So, will I support the Oduduwa Republic or not? I have always been an agitator of one Nigeria. But the present situation in this country is paving way for a rethink. What I know we get wrong is leadership. Why wasn’t there such a move during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration? It is because everybody felt secured and their interests were cared for. But Buhari blew off all the gains of nationhood built by past administrations through his nepotistic inclinations. He killed Nigeria and he must be blamed for everything that is happening now.” Ibrahim Quadri advised the proponents of the Oduduwa Republic to tread cautiously adding that the purported currency being circulated on social media is an affront against the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He urged the leaders of thought in Yoruba land to call the agitators to order, noting that the current occurrences in the country is a challenge for every citizen and must be tackled collectively. “There is an urgent need for the Federal Government to convene a national conference so that a workable constitution can be enacted to address the interest of every geo-political zone of the country. “It is appalling that successive governments in Nigeria have failed to yield to the calls for the restructuring of the country. This failure has exacerbated the secessionist struggles especially in the southern part of the country. Sitting at a round table to fashion a way out for an ensuring and soothing co-existence among ethnic nationalities should be paramount for the Buhari’s administration”, he added. A human right activist, Waheed Lawal said as a Nigerian, he does not believe in the agenda of the Oduduwa Republic or any that has to do with the break up of Nigeria. Lawal emphasised that Nigeria is a country governed by laws and nothing should be done that would run contrary to those laws. Ismahil Tiamiyu expressed the same views insisting that the Oduduwa Republic is really unnecessary at this time. He reminded the Yorubas that the current secessionist agenda bore a semblance to the agitation for Biafra and how it started. Citing South Sudan as an example of a failed attempt at breakaway, he maintained that no country breaks away easily adding that Biafra and South Sudan remained a dream. On the issue of the Fadaka currency, he explained that it was a joke that has been taken too far. Another respondent, Steven Olagundoye, is of the opinion that it is a treasonable offence and a mirage that can never see the light of the day. According to him, “It can only remain on Social Media. Anyone who declares such in the public, I am sure would be duly prosecuted by the Federal Government. “Nigeria is a multi-ethnic nation, put together by law and a Constitution, and we must continue to cohabit as a national entity. I don’t think secession would be realistic in this 21st century. It would only culminate in another civil war; worse than ‘Biafra’.” He proferred a restructuring of the country which Nigerians have been clamouring for over the years. Adewuyi Arowoogun, another respondent said granting the Yorubas Oduduwa Republic in this present government is an impossibility. While canvassing for resource control as a way of moving the country forward, he attributed the current agitation for Oduduwa Republic to fallout of frustration occasioned by a failure of governance at the top. In expressing support for a Yoruba breakaway, James Oloyede, a nutrition expert noted that he was for it in as much as it is a negotiated one that had passed through a valid referendum. Oloyede said he is also favourably disposed to the adoption of a new currency to go along with the new nation. Ayo Ologun disclosed that he is in support of cessation by whatever name it is called, so long as it is done through the prescribed process of the law as acceptable by international standard. In his words, “A people deserve to decide how and with whom they want to live without coercion. No one has the right to put together people who do not want to be together. Such self-realisation and declaration must be led by people of impeccable character and accepted leadership.” He, however, condemned the adoption of a new currency on the basis that it was wrong to introduce one when a country is yet to come into existence. Oluwadare Adewumi in supporting the call for the Oduduwa Republic revealed that the Southwest region has always been the pacesetter in terms of development in Nigeria. For him, “The Oduduwa Republic is thus a right step in the right direction. Development is faster with less population and lesser tribal conflicts. I know with time other regions too will get themselves divorced from the forced marriage to Nigeria.
Given the current dispensation, a good constitution and God-fearing leaders, Nigeria will get better in 2091. Are we ready to wait that long?”