The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded an immediate review of the 375 kilometre Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano road reconstruction contract, following the unearthing of corrupt padding in the N797.23 billion recently approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). This was contained in a statement on Monday. In a statement issued by Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, the party asked for an open probe into the criminal padding of the contract from the original N155 billion to an outrageous and indefensible N797 billion, with a whooping N642 billion allegedly earmarked to be shared among corrupt officials. According to the statement, “With the approved N797 billion, for a 375 kilometre road, the Buhari Presidency is claiming to be reconstructing a kilometre of road with an outrageous and inexcusable N2.12 billion; a huge slap on the sensibilities of Nigerians. “While our party restates our total support for the reconstruction of this very important road, the PDP insists that it will be against the interest of the nation to allow criminal elements in the Buhari administration to hide under the project to steal a staggering N642 billion which ought to be channelled to other projects that would benefit the people.” “Our nation was jolted a the level of corruption in the Buhari presidency wherein Mr. President could approve a fraudulent contract padding to the tune of N642 billion at the time our nation is battling with serious economic challenges and infrastructural stagnation. “The PDP charges President Buhari to heed to the demands by Nigerians and immediately effect the review in the interest of the nation before any releases are made. “The review by Mr. President would douse tension already generated by the revelations of this attempt by fraudulent officials to swindle the nation as well as restore the confidence of the people in our system. “Our party holds that the N642 billion which would be recovered through the review should be channelled to fixing other important roads in the region as well as other parts of our country, which have become death traps. “Moreover, the PDP tasks the Buhari Presidency, to come clean on this blasphemous attempt to swindle our nation, by instituting and allowing an open investigation on this criminal act by relevant statutory bodies including the National Assembly and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).” The statement said