Despite the recent killing of a family of six by unknown gunmen in Wasinmi in Irewole Local Government Area of Osun State, the place has been declared to be very peaceful. The Special Adviser on Security to the Osun State Governor, CP Abiodun Ige (rtd.) while speaking on a radio programme in Osogbo Monday morning assured that the situation was under control as the security agencies would get to the bottom of the matter. She promised that the culprits would soon be brought to book within the shortest possible time. This is as there have been repeated calls by concerned citizens over the increase in the spate of killings, kidnappings and robbery incidents that have pervaded Osun State in the past weeks. Also, there have been calls for the state governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola to step up action and rejig the security apparatus in the state by conveying an all-inclusive security meeting. While making their complaints known to DAILY POST, some citizens revealed that these developments does not speak well of the state. Olusola Bolaji revealed that the time has come for the state to convene an all-inclusive security arrangement. According to him, “The OPC, Amotekun, Hunters Group of Nigeria, Vigilante Group of Nigeria, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and the Nigerian Police must team up. Watch Bearers must also be planted at local government boundaries. We must understand our enemies. Their style is to start their terror from the fringes and then move into the cities. The battleground must be shifted to the forests. Once they kill residents the way they did at Wasinmi, they occupy the space and spread out from their base. Our mission is not to arrest. We are to search, locate and neutralise them. If we don’t start early, it is going to get messy with time.” For Abidoye Castro, “the security issue in Osun is beyond convening a security meeting. A Few days ago, the governor met with security agencies and he has been meeting with them. Between us, what has really changed? “Recall that the primary purpose of buying a helicopter by former governor Rauf Aregbesola was to aid our security agencies in securing our dear state. Today, where is the chopper? The last we heard if it was that since it was too expensive to maintain, the state has leased it out.” Another concerned citizen, Seyi Abisoye while corroborating the matter noted that the security situation is beyond meeting. He pointed out that Osun State should not be quick in joining the other states in battling insecurity if not that something critical is wrong, adding that compared to other states, Osun was quite peaceful. DAILY POST recalls that two weeks ago, one person lost his life when some travellers were attacked and kidnapped along Ibokun – Osogbo road. They were, however, rescued after determined efforts on the part of security agencies. Last week Wednesday, two persons were killed when a commercial bank was attacked and robbed at Okuku in Odo-Otin local govt area of the state. DAILY POST also reported that over the weekend, six members of a family; a man, his two wives and three grandchildren were killed at Wasinmi, in Irewole local government area of the state by unknown gunmen.