Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Saturday called on traditional and community leaders across the state to be security conscious as well as vigilant against foreign elements that infiltrate their communities. Governor Mohammed made the call at the palace of the district head of Jama’are in Nabordo Village, Toro Local Government Area of the state in continuation of his inspection of ongoing projects in the state. According to the governor, though the state is enjoying relative peace currently, there is still the need to be vigilant, hence community leaders must not rest on their oars. Governor Mohammed explained that security is everybody’s business, adding that community leaders have to ensure that their citizens were protected from strangers who might sneak into the communities with dubious motives. “Remember security is everybody’s business. Yes, we have relative peace but I am calling on our traditional rulers and all the leaders across the length and breadth of our social strata to open their eyes. People are coming from everywhere “They have the right to come but we have the right to protect ourselves. Let us be very vigilant, let us not allow insecurity to divide us,” the governor warned. He added that the government does not have the kind of resources to police every part of the state and as such traditional rulers and community leaders must ensure that their subjects are adequately protected. “We have to work very hard because there are those coming that are abducting our people and doing all sorts of things. We should not allow them to do it. “Government does not have the resources and manpower to police everywhere but you can do it,” he said. Earlier in his address, the state Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Nuhu Zaki, said the government awarded the contract for the reconstruction of the palace of the district head of Jama’are at the cost of N7 million. He lauded the administration of Governor Mohammed for executing laudable projects across the state, declaring that the administration only embarks upon projects that have a direct impact on the lives of the people. He, however, called on the people of the state to continue to support the government for it to succeed.