There was confusion in Osun state chapter of Social Democratic Party, SDP, on Thursday as Elder Femi Awe who imposed himself as the Acting Chairman of the party was whisked away by the police during a program organized for the party. The prayer session was held at Ajegunle area opposite Dugbe Police Station, Osogbo. The programme commenced around 11:30 am as Christian and Muslim clerics led prayers for Nigeria, Osun State and the party. Elder Awe has been expelled from the party since 2018, DAILY POST learnt. It was gathered that after a traditionalist offered prayers, Elder Awe was approached by some policemen in mufti and accused him of organizing such a programme in public without informing security operatives. The operatives insisted that the Commissioner of Police instructed them to bring him to Osun State Police Command for questioning. A man claiming to be secretary of the party in Osun, Azeez Musbau, said: “We had informed the Police, Department of State Service (DSS) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps on April 14, 2021 about the programme. “All the security agencies certified they received the copy, but we are surprised that the police came into the programme today and took away the chairman of the party, even though we presented the copies of a letter that they received our notification.” Confirming the arrest of Awe, the Osun State police spokesperson, SP Yemisi Opalola said Oladehinde petitioned the police over the meeting being organised by someone imposing himself as the acting chairman of the party. She added that the police acted upon the call as the police invited the duo. “We didn’t arrest him but invited him.” However, the Deputy Chairman of the party in Osun, Goke Omigbodun disclosed that Elder Awe had been expelled from the party since 2018, adding that Dr Sola Oladehinde had since then become the chairman of the party. He said, “the only chairman in Osun SDP is Dr Sola Oladehinde which I am his deputy. Elder Awe had been expelled from the party before Osun 2018 gubernatorial election. He is not a member of our party. “Akeem Bello is the Secretary in Osun, not Azeez Musbau who is claiming to be the secretary. Those people are pretenders who have been expelled from the party. The INEC have the lists of the executives in the state.” Contacting the National Chairman of the party, Dr Olu Agunloye, he affirmed that Oladehinde is the chairman of the party in Osun, restating that Awe was not a member of the party. “Sola Oladehinde is the chairman. There is no record for me that one Femi Awe is a member of the party. It’s a funny development, I have never seen a case like this. when someone will just wake up and claim to be acting chairman of a part, ” the national chairman said.