The remains of a former Abia State Commissioner for Works, Allen Nwachukwu, was on Friday, committed to mother earth at his hometown, Umuokiri, Otuobi Autonomous Community in Osisioma Ngwa Local Government Area of the state. Nwachukwu, who was the immediate past State Deputy Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, died at 73, in June 2020. Speaking at the burial ceremony, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu said the death of Allen Nwachukwu was a personal loss to him, Osisioma Ngwa, Abia and Nigeria at large. The Governor described the deceased as a colossus, an orator and a leader per excellence whose contributions to the economic development of Abia State was huge. He disclosed that, as an elected Chairman of the old Obioma Ngwa LGA, late Chief Allen Nwachukwu conceptualized and built the Alaoji Spare Parts Market, Umuehilegbu Industrial Shoe Market and Ehere Market which are recognized today as huge enablers needed to grow the economy of the state. Ikpeazu revealed that the foundations laid by the deceased helped create a pathway for his administration to key into trade & commerce as a pillar of development. The Abia Governor, who challenged all to live well and impact lives, condoled with the immediate family and urged them to sustain the legacies of their late father. In a homily titled “Death is inevitable, be ready now”, Wisdom Anyanwu of the Stella Marris Catholic Church, Abayi, Aba called on all to be ready as death is inevitable. The preacher said everyone must surely die, whether one believes it or not, describing death as the beginning of the end and not not the end itself. He urged leaders to lead well as they would be judged by God, in line with their works. DAILY POST reports that late Chief Allen Nwachukwu, who was aged 73 years is survived by wives, fifteen children, fourteen grandchildren, brothers and a host of other relations. His burial ceremony also attracted the creme of Abia politics, including, Senator Theodore Orji, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, Senator Nkechi Nwaorgu, Honorable Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr Uche Ogah, Speaker and members of the Abia State House of Assembly, National Organizing Secretary of the PDP, Col. Austin Akobundu (Rtd), Traditional Rulers, Religious Leaders, party faithful among many other dignitaries.