The Kwara State Police Command has arrested the leader of a kidnap gang, Kazeem Mohammed and three other gang members. They were arrested over the alleged kidnap and killing of one Olokose Oluwasola Ojo in Patigi, Patigi Local Government Area of the state. According to the spokesman of the command, SP Okasanmi Ajayi, in a statement in Ilorin on Wednesday, the gang leader of Patigi, collected the sum of N160,000 from one Olokose Oluwasola Ojo, now deceased on the guise of helping him buy a cow to be used on the deceased wedding scheduled to hold between March 12th and 13th, 2021. “Since the victim left Ilorin with the suspect, he could no longer be reached by anybody including his intending wife, one Ilori Oluwakemi. “On 3/3/2021, the wife received a call from her husband’s line demanding N12m ransom if she hope to see her husband again,” the statement added. Following a report on the incident, the state police commissioner, Mohammed Lawal Bagega, directed an all encompassing investigation into the matter, ordering the arrest of the kidnappers and rescue of the victim unhurt at all costs. Investigation according to the statement, “led to the arrest of the gang leader, Kazeem Mohammed Beiwa in Patigi via the use of hi-tec intelligence. “Investigation further led to the arrest of three other members of the syndicate, namely, Mohammed Chatta, Jimoh Abdullateef and Madi Jeremiah, who confessed to the crime.” They allegedly also confirmed the killing of the victim and burying him in a shallow grave inside the bush. “They took policemen to the scene of the killing where the head was severed and used for money ritual by Mohammed Kazeem, the leader of the gang,” the statement further revealed. “The suspects stated in their confessional statement that the victim was lured into the remote part of Patigi where he was told the cow he paid for was tied. “On getting to the spot, he was shot and killed.” The body, DAILY POST gathered, was exhumed by the police and taken to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital mortuary for autopsy. The police commissioner who advised members of the public to be on guard at all times and know who to transact business with, said the suspects will be charged to court as soon as court resumes sitting from their strike action. Police parade inspector, soldier, others over alleged robbery in Ibadan Police parade two Turkish kidnap suspects, four others in Kwara How notorious kidnapper, Vampire killed over 200 persons - Police