Actor Yomi Fabiyi has fired back at Davido and Toke Makinwa for insulting him over his stand on Baba Ijesha’s alleged rape case. In the past 48 hours, heated arguments have ensued between entertainers in Nigeria as they expressed divergent views on the matter. While some appeared sympathetic to Baba Ijesha’s plight, others are drumming support in the fight for justice for the defiled minor. Fabiyi, who asked for caution and appeared sympathetic to Baba Ijesha, has been under attack by celebrities since his latest post on Instagram. Davido, Toke makinwa as well as Iyabo Ojo called him out for his comments, describing him as a disgrace. Responding, Fabiyi in an interview with Goldmynetv said no one had the right to judge him for asking questions and not jumping into conclusion to declare Baba Ijesha guilty. He said, “Somebody as intelligent as Toke Makinwa just picked pieces and concluded. Fine they may have the social media platform than I have but all I can say is go and rearrange your background and ensure you find the truth. “If you’re intelligent or more exposed, famous and you can’t be careful to balance stories but attack people’s integrity then that is because you think you’re God. “Toke Makinwa said all that about me on her page but I would never do that to Toke Makinwa. “Davido was accused of murder at one time I did not say anything and on my honour I would never judge him but he should search his conscience is that what you’ll use your fame and exposure for. “Are you believing that I asked to see video evidence of a minor? “I’m preaching caution, you’re preaching bashing, hate. I don’t know the talent these people have or if they understand the entertainment industry.” Fabiyi went ahead to refute claims that he demanded for the video evidence of Baba Ijesha allegedly assaulting the minor. “I will never say show me the video, I will never do what people are doing right now to me. I have the moral responsibility to respect my colleague until they are proven guilty. “I will not pass judgement because I’m not God or ruin their name until law enforcement agencies give their verdict,” he said.