The Kwara State Government has inducted about 130 medical workers recruited into the state civil service to boost healthcare delivery in the state. Among them were 19 doctors, 90 nurses and 20 other allied health workers recruited into the primary and secondary health facilities, Dr. Saad Aluko, Director General, Kwara state Hospital Management Bureau, said at the induction ceremony for new workers in the Ilorin General Hospital on Tuesday. Commending Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq’s administration for its strides in the health sector, Dr Aluko, urged the new health workers to deliver on their mandate to save lives. He said ” As professionals, we are to serve the people of Kwara State in the capacities we have been employed for. ” It is important you know the civil service rules, it is important for you to know your roles in the state hospitals and save lives,” he stated, adding” your role here is to have empathetic nursing care to the people. ” This is a new era. We have an administration that cares about the people. You are ambassadors of the state government” hence, ” You are to be of best behaviour at all times,” Dr. Aluko further stated. He urged the new health workers to let patients have confidence in the system and know that they are valued and important and as taxpayers, they deserve the best treatment. Mrs. Florence Adeniran, Director of Nursing Services, explained that the induction was designed to let the new workers know what was expected of them in the service. “They are to care for our patients. We expect the inductees to work with the vision of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq in ensuring qualitative and accessible healthcare delivery,” she added. Also speaking, the Director of Medical Services at the Health Management Board, Dr Femi Johnson, disclosed that the government had secured approval for post graduate programme for doctors in family medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology, just as plans are in the works for cardio-renal unit at the Ilorin general hospital.