The Zamfara State government has revealed that the state police command arrested seven serving military officers who were allegedly deeply involved in banditry activities. DAILY POST reports that they are said to be supplying bandits with logistics and information. Addressing newsmen at the state ministry of information in Gusau, the state capital, the commissioner for information, Hon. Ibrahim Magaji Dosara said that the police command informed the government that the seven serving military men have been sabotaging the peace accord and reconciliation program by the present administration. According to the Hon. Dosara, the information from the police revealed that the police command arrested the logistics’ suppliers to the bandits with enough exhibits that are capable of dealing with them by the laws of the land. The commissioner explained that the suspects have already been interrogated by the police, saying that many of the suspects have made confessional statements on their respective crimes. “The suspects have since been handed over to their appropriate security authorities for further necessary actions. We feel obliged not to disclose their identities as the security agencies concerned are on top of the issue,” Dosara added. Speaking further, the commissioner explained that one of the suspects was caught in possession of 20 rounds of 62mm of live ammunition at a point of handling over to the buyer, one Kabiru Bashiru of Maniya village, a suspected active bandit, having received advance payment of N100,000 “The second suspect from Sokoto State was caught by detectives supplying military uniforms and kits to suspected bandits. Nine military bulletproof, four sets of military camouflage uniforms, five pairs of military hand globes, 2 First bank ATM, 1 Nigeria Army ID Card and one Samsung Android handset. “In a similar effort, on 1st of April, 2021, a team of police men attached to Serious Crime Unit (SCU), while acting on intelligence and credibly information intercepted two suspects from Zurmi and Shinkafi Local Government Areas of the state allegedly supplying bandits with ammunitions and military camouflage from Lagos,” he said. Continuing, the commissioner said on the 31st of March, 2021, another team of policemen on patrol along Wanke – Dansadau road arrested another suspect from Rukuja area of Musawa Local Government Area of Katsina state, stressing that in the course of interrogation, the suspect was discovered to be from one of the hideouts in the forest of Dansandau, pointing out that while searching through his handset, the suspect’s picture was discovered holding AK47 rifle and other sophisticated weapons belonging to him. According to the commissioner, the fifth suspect from Kamarwa village of Sokoto State, who is a medical doctor was arrested by operation Puff Adder policemen for allegedly supplying military kits to suspected bandits within Shinkafi axis on the 4th of April, saying that ten pairs of military jingle boots, five sets of shingers and military hand globes were recovered from the suspect. Dosara further explained that another suspect on the 4th of April, 2021 was caught by a team of police men attached to Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) (Base 18 Gusau in possession of two locally made guns, 12 live cartridges, bunch of charms and cash amounting to N523,000. However, it could be recalled that the Governor, Hon. Bello Mohammed Matawalle recently said that people would be shocked to know those aiding and abetting the dastardly act of armed banditry in the State and beyond. Our correspondent reports that the revelation of the security operatives involved in sabotaging military operations and actions against bandits in the state is a clear testimony to the Governor’s statement.