A Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Onwa Innocent Nwachukwu, has said the recent victory of the party in the just-concluded Aba North and Aba South federal constituency election was a clear manifestation of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s developmental strides in Aba and the state at large. Nwachukwu claimed that the PDP administration in Abia has performed well in all facets of governance, especially in the area of infrastructures, health, trade and investment and education. The PDP stalwart, in a press statement made available to journalists in Umuahia, said the ruling party has addressed most teething yearnings of the Abia masses, stressing that the party has come to stay, as it remained the best choice of the people because of its landmark achievements. Nwachukwu enjoined Abia residents to continue maintaining their unflinching support for the Peoples Democratic Party-led government to execute more meaningful infrastructural projects in every nooks and cranny of the state. He congratulated Governor Ikpeazu, Abia speaker, Rt. Hon Chinedum Enyinnaya Orji and Assembly members as well as the enlarged PDP family in the state on the resounding victory of the party in concluded Aba bye-election. He charged the winner and PDP candidate, Hon Chimaobi Ebisike to reciprocate the supports given to him by the Aba people by offering quality representation. Nwachukwu lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, and political actors, Aba residents for their peaceful conduct before, during and after the bye-election. He further applauded security agencies and election observers for their efforts which ensured a hitch-free exercise last Saturday. DAILY POST reports that Ebisike polled 10,322 votes to defeat his challengers from the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mascot Uzor Kalu who scored 3674 votes, and the All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, Akaraka Destiny Nwagwu, who polled 1554 votes. Ebisike is expected to fill the vacant position left by the death of Ossy Prestige, the constituency’s former representative who died in 2020.