Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on Thursday vowed that the Eastern Security Network, ESN, would avenge the killings in Ebonyi and Enugu States. Kanu alleged that the killings in Enugu and Ebonyi States have exposed the fact that security agents are working with killer herders in the Southeast. The IPOB leader stressed that security agents are allegedly covering up killer herdsmen. Kanu, who spoke through IPOB’s National Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, wondered why security agents have not been able to apprehend those responsible for the massacre. A statement by Powerful reads: “It is now obvious that the Nigeria military and other security agencies are providing cover for Fulani herdsmen on killing spree in South East and South South. With the recent massacre of innocent Biafrans in Enugu and Ebonyi States by these blood sucking vampires, nobody is still left in doubt that the security agencies have been giving them tacit support. “The inability of the double-faced Nigeria security agencies to arrest or go after these Killers days after the genocidal attacks is a confirmation of our position that the Nigeria security agencies despite their pretence provide cover for terrorists disguising as Fulani herdsmen in Southern Nigeria. “Where are the military helicopter gunboats that were buzzing over Orlu airspace in search of ESN operatives in February? Where are the heavily armed brutal soldiers that massacred unarmed Biafran agitators in morning exercise at Emene? Where are the wicked DSS operatives daily hunting and abducting IPOB members and other Biafran agitators? “These terrorists in security uniform are zealously arresting unarmed and peaceful agitators but too weak and unwilling to touch their fellow terrorists smoking lives out of innocent Indigenous Nigerians. Why can’t Nigeria Fulani terrorists in military uniform trace those that attacked 4 villages in Ebonyi and Enugu States? “But we assure them that these genocides will not go unpunished. Our gallant ESN personnel will respond proportionately! We are prepared for them. We knew a time like this will come, and that was why our proactive Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu floated ESN ahead of time to defend Biafrans against these blood suckers. “Again, we vow that ESN will avenge the blood of the innocent Biafrans spilled by these demons from Sahel! But woe betide any hypocrite in DSS, police or military uniform that will rise to their defense when ESN pays them back in their own coin. “The die is cast! That dark moment that our leader saw many years ago has finally dawned. Those who want ESN outlawed should provide an alternative now that the Killers are on the prowl!”