Governor, Bala Mohammed, on Monday, lamented the influx of displaced people from neighbouring states where there is massive insecurity into Bauchi, overstretched the state’s infrastructures. The Governor explained that his administration could not afford to compromise the security of lives and property of the people of the state. He made the assertions when a delegation of participants of Course 14 of the National Institute of Security Studies paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House in Bauchi. He said Bauchi State was the gateway to the North-East and North-Central states facing security challenges, adding that people were migrating to the state in large numbers.  This, the governor said, had led to unemployment, youth restiveness as well as infrastructure and service gaps in health, education, among others. Governor Mohammed said the state was facing challenges in terms of demographics, migration and immigration due to people running from Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states being devastated by insecurity. “Our population has risen from the official record 6.5 million to about 10 million in Bauchi, thereby overstretching our services and infrastructures. “We have the highest number of out-of-school children and therefore, there is unemployment, youth restiveness and of course there are infrastructure and service gaps in health, in education and even in our transportation and the rest. There are high expectations from the polity thereby overstretching our security agencies,” he said. The governor added that “we are within the zone that is so pervasive in terms of security. We have the Boko Haram and the incursion of other security issues on community relations, the conflict between herders and farmers and even between our own brothers and sisters of various faiths in terms of religion.” He informed that the state government was funding a joint patrol team with a view to ensuring that the military and other security agencies were always on their toes in maintaining the peace in the state, particularly in the local government areas which are more vulnerable because of their exposure. “We are very conscious if there is religious tension in the Plateau, Bauchi will receive the barrage of people that are running. Even in Kano, if there is any religious tension it comes here. “Of course, from the Northwest when we have these issues of banditry through Kaduna; we are bordered by them, you know that Borno is part and parcel of us and Yobe and Adamawa,” he said. Governor Mohammed informed that the Bauchi State government had been able to identify Toro; Dass; Tafawa Balewa; Alkaleri; Gamawa and Zaki Local Government Areas of the state as where some unscrupulous elements infiltrate the state from. Earlier in her remarks, the leader of the delegation,Mrs Emiloye Oyeyele, informed that 66 participants were currently undergoing a 10-month course at the institute. According to her, at the end of the course, participants would be given awards of fellows, adding that the 17 participants in her delegation are members of Syndicate 4. She said that the purpose of their visit was to tap from Governor Mohammed’s wealth of experience in governance, particularly how he had successfully managed the security challenges in the state.Insecurity