Former Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Assembly Matters, Honourable Abdulrahman Suleiman Kawu Sumaila, has described the recent attack on the personality of the president in London, United Kingdom as unfortunate, barbaric and uncalled-for. Sumaila, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in a statement he signed, said the attack on president Buhari was far beyond the personality of the president, rather an attempt to diminish the image of the country by some bad elements in the name of politics. Sumaila explained that “The action of a group of Nigerians led by a woman identified as Saratu Ishaya Audi, were nothing but ethnic and religious bigotry. It is wrong to attack Nigerian president with such abusive words. “The verbal attack was far away from politics. It is rather a sign of intolerance. And this has clearly shows that the woman and her accomplices were only dancing to the tune of some high profile personalities who are desperate in tarnishing not only the good image of president Buhari, but Nigeria as a country. “I want make it categorically clear that their ill-motive action was against the culture and norms of African people. And I believe neither Islam nor Christianity will support this kind of barbaric action where people will come out openly abusing their president in the name of politics. This is unfortunate.” He, however, assured that those behind the unfortunate incident would soon be exposed. Sumaila, therefore, appealed to the chieftains of the APC and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to condemn the attack, lamenting that the verbal attack was serious embarrassment to all Nigerians in respective of party affiliation. He called on both APC and PDP stakeholders to do everything possible within their ambit of law to prevent future occurrence of the unfortunate incident not on in the UK but anywhere across the globe. He suggested that the concerned people especially those occupying positions in the APC-led government should consult with the relevant stakeholders across the country to deliberate on the issue with a view to protecting the integrity of the president and the nation as a whole. “All concerned APC members should put their heads together and address this issue. We should not let this issue go unchecked, otherwise, some other groups can do worse than this and it will not help matters at all.”