Ozonkpu Victor Oye, National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, Sunday, prayed for the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ to cover the nation and shield it from destruction. In his Easter message issued by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Barrister Tex Okechukwu, the APGA National Chairman, expressed great optimism that the inherent power behind the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ would have an extensive impact on Nigeria, especially at this time of critical challenges. Oye said that the 40 days of fasting, prayer and almsgiving by christendom would touch the heart of God to have mercy on the country and save it from destruction, strife and backwardness. The APGA boss called on all Nigerians to show love to one another, avoid sin and all forms of hatred and bigotry, and embrace peace, unity and equality. He called for more tolerance among Nigerians “despite our regions, tribal and political differences.” According to him, “for us to achieve greatness, we must turn a new leave, mend our hearts and reconcile with one another. This is the only we can demonstrate in practical terms the lessons we learned from Lent and Holy Week”. Ozonkpu Oye, in the message also thanked God for the safe release from captivity the Commissioner for Public Utilities, Anambra State, Emeka Ezenwanne. In its goodwill message issued to newsmen, on Sunday, by the Publicity Secretary, Comrade Benedict Godson, the All Progressive Congress APC, Abia State chapter, feliciatated with christian faithfuls on the celebration of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Abia APC stressed the need for the people of the State to use this period of Easter to eschew hatred and love one another, adding that “Abia should always be our first love because we have no other State except Abia”. According to the party, “there is absolutely no need for hate in a season of love. Politics or no politics, party or no party, we must remember we are all Abians”. APC counseled all and sundry to bury whatever differences, forgive one another and toe the path of reconciliation as exemplified by our Lord Jesus Christ. The message partly stated, “Jesus Christ despite being sinless and a life without blemish, accepted to offer his own life as a sacrifice for the salvation we enjoy today. “He did not just offer his life for his family and friends, the Bible made it clear that he took away the sins of the World which includes the sins of his enemies, enemies of his father, mother and enemies of his country while on earth. “This made it possible for Christ to become the only true atonement for the sins of this wicked world we live in. What a friend we have in Him! What a love He has for us! What a sacrifice He made to keep us! What a saviour He is! “With that same Love of Jesus Christ, with that same forgiven spirit of Jesus Christ, with that same selfless nature of Jesus Christ, I plead with all Abians to as a matter of necessity, see ourselves as one and forget whatever that might have happened in the past for the sake of Christ. “If Christ could forgive we chronic sinners and allowed the momentous event of Him sacrificing his precious blood for atonement for our sins, who are we to bear grudges and harbour hatred against our brothers? Let love rule! Let love reign for the Saviour is risen! “As the Christ’s death and resurrection reconciled mankind to God and significantly destroyed the wall of division between Jews and Gentiles, so should this year’s Easter break the walls of division between Abia North, Abia Central and Abia South for we are one body in Christ Jesus”.