Nigeria’s number one contract farming company, Farm4Me has been named Africa’s Leading Quality Farm Equipment Sales & Rental Service Provider of the Year 2021. Farm4Me bagged the award at the 7th African Quality Achievement Awards 2021 organized by World Quality Alliance held at Sheraton Hotels, Lagos on Friday 16th April, 2021.    This development came barely one month after the fast-growing agritech company was named the West Africa’s Best World Class Digital Agricultural Investment Platform Brand of the Year 2021 at the 10th West Africa Brand Excellence Award. The African Quality Achievement Awards is an annual event aimed at celebrating leadership innovation and creativity in quality management in Africa. According to the Organisers of the awards, Farm4Me emerged winner of the category for playing key roles in the development of agriculture in Nigeria by renting out quality equipment to boost farming in the country. Speaking shortly after picking up the award on behalf of the MD/CEO of Farm4Me, Adama J Adama, the Customer Relationship Manager, Esther Apaa, thanked the organisers for the honour, assuring that the firm will continue to offer quality farm mechanization services for food security in Nigeria.  Flanked by Uzoma Anadi, Head of Corporate Communications and Uzor Obinka, Human Resources Manager, Esther said Farm4Me is on a mission to give over 20 million smallholder farmers in Nigeria affordable access to tractors, planters and harvesters. She said, “We are honoured to receive this prestigious award, we work hard everyday to better the lives of farmers and vulnerable people in rural communities in Nigeria. We are happy about the great opportunities ahead of us as we continually strive to remain at the forefront of technological innovation in Agriculture across Nigeria and eventually the continent of Africa.”  “We are inspired by this award to strive for the full mechanization of Agriculture in Nigeria. At Farm4Me Agriculture Limited, we are building the next generation infrastructures to facilitate the next wave of Agriculture Revolution in Nigeria. “We are on a mission to give over 20 million smallholder farmers in Nigeria affordable access to tractors, planters and harvesters.”