Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma yesterday, said the recent attack on police headquarters and release of inmates from the state’s Correctional Centre was targeted at the All Progressives Congress (APC) governments both in the state and the federal level. The governor made the remarks on Wednesday during a programme on Channels Television “Politics Today.” 2. The Federal Government yesterday said it has started paying medical doctors, most of the House Officers who are owed arrears. Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, said these in a statement by Deputy Director of Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Charles Akpan. 3. The South-West based socio-political group, Afenifere, on Wednesday, denied supporting the presidential bid of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, or any aspirant for the 2023 presidential election. This was contained in a statement by its Director of Communications, Sola Lawal, yesterday. 4. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo decorated the Acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba on Wednesday. The ceremony was held at the State House, Abuja. 5. Biafra Nations League, BNL, yesterday, asked the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-General Ibrahim Attahiru to cease operations in Essien Udim, Akwa Ibom State following the alleged killing of soldiers and policemen by hoodlums. BNL stated this in a statement signed by its Deputy National Leader, and head of operations, BBS Media, Ebuta Akor Takon. 6. Unknown gunmen, yesterday, killed three farmers in Taraba State. The farmers who were tilling their farmlands in preparation for the rainy season, were hacked to death in the farms by yet to be identified persons. 7. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello on Wednesday appointed the Acting Chairman of the Niger State Revenue Board, Alhaji Ahmad Garba Gunna as the new Emir of Kagara. The Commissioner for Local Government, Community Development and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mallam Abdulmalik Sarkin Daji announced the new Emir. 8. The Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) has said the region would not vote along ethnic and religious lines in 2023. Prof. Ango Abdullahi, former vice-chancellor, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria and chairman of the forum made the declaration yesterday. 9. The PDP Governors Forum yesterday, donated N100 million to victims of the Zamfara State fire incident and warned the APC to desist from attempting to poach its governors. Chairman of the forum and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, stated this when he led a delegation of PDP governors on a visit to the Governor of Zamfara State, Dr. Bello. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 110 new cases of coronavirus, COVID-19, in 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of registered cases in the country to 163,440.