The Oyo State Commisioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko and other top officers of the state police command on Monday, stormed Oluyole Local Government Area of Ibadan in search of kidnappers. DAILY POST recalls that Oluyole Local Government Area had in the last few weeks witnessed several cases of kidnapping. Our correspondent had earlier reported that no fewer than 15 residents of the state had been kidnapped in the late one month. DAILY POST gathered that fourteen of the kidnapped victims were 14 at different locations in Oluyole local government area. DAILY POST, however, reports that the Commisioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko in an effort to arrest the kidnappers and to forestall future kidnap cases led her officers to pay an unscheduled visit to the local government area. Public Relations Officer of the command, Mr. Adewale Osifeso who spoke on behalf of the police Commisioner, noted that the visit of the CP was to consolidate the success recorded from various releases of abducted persons. He added that the Commissioner of Police has since sort out ways to bring kidnapping in the ‘Idi-Ayunre forest axis’ to a halt. He urged residents to support the command by giving credible information that can lead to the arrest of the suspects. He said, “To this effect, the CP embarked on yet another “on the spot” assessment in the company of members of her management team, to the said forest, combing through ‘Mamu’, ‘Dalley’ and its environs across Ogun State border with the purposes of sharing of information and conducting Intelligence-led operations between the States. “Consequent upon this, the Commissioner of Police wishes to inform both private and public users of the idi-Ayunre / Ijebu-Ode road as well as every other boundary related routes within the Oyo State Police Command’s jurisdiction to bear in mind that security apparatus has been deployed in top capacities to ensure that all and sundry within the State go about their day to day activities without any form of molestation or harassment from unscrupulous elements. “While cooperation with the Police in exchange of credible and timely information is encouraged, the CP also enjoins the good people of Oyo State to stay away from crime and aligns with the holy virtues associated with the holy month of Ramadan, within and beyond the Ramadan period.”