A group, which visited the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore in the name of Tiv people, the major tribe in Benue State have explained why it embarked on the visit. Members of the group who identified themselves as peace advocates explained that they were deceived into the Tiv Unity Forum by Mr Solomon Semaka. They said Semaka led them to the Miyyeti Allah’s office for peace talks but were shocked when they realized he had other motives against the initial intention. DAILY POST had reported that the Tiv Youth Organisation, TYO, an umbrella body of Tiv youths worldwide, on Saturday raised alarm over the activities of the ‘Tiv Unity Forum’ led by Solomon Semaka. TYO slammed the group for visiting and honouring the Miyetti Allah “killers of the Tiv people” with awards, referring to them as impostors. However, a statement issued to newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday by the group’s spokesman, Bango Thomas an indigene of Taraba State, said they were peace advocates from different tribes. Bango Thomas claimed that Solomon Semaka who initiated the Tiv Unity Forum was on a “self-seeking mission aimed at castigating the Governor of his state His Excellency Samuel Ortom”. According to them: “We want to state that we are not Tiv people. “We are peace advocates and we were invited for a peace meeting and we followed Solomon Semaka who claimed to be the convener of the Tiv Unity Forum and also claimed that he has the mandate of his people to seek peace between them and the Fulani people. “However during the visit, we realized that the real motive of Semaka was different from what he made us understand. It is now clear to us that what he set out to achieve was the direct opposite of the peace he claimed to be pursuing for his people. It was a self-seeking mission aimed at castigating the Governor of his state His Excellency Samuel Ortom and also trading the entire interest of the Tiv people. “We have learnt more about Semaka’s sinister move and have thus found this press conference necessary to distance ourselves from his agenda. “We, therefore, tender an unreserved apology to the Executive Governor of Benue State and the Tiv nation at large for our outing. “We have learnt our lessons and moving forward, we will be guided properly before associating ourselves with certain characters. “We remain committed to the restoration of peace in Nigeria, and we believe that only through justice and fairness can such peace be achieved. “We also call on all herders to embrace ranching which is the global best practice of rearing animals to avoid conflicts between them and other Nigerians. “We commend the courage of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State in upholding justice and standing with the people of this country to achieve a better Nigeria for all. History will be fair to him and other patriotic citizens. “We will urge Solomon Semaka to go back to his people with remorse and seek forgiveness. No man progresses in life by betraying his people. He is still young and can make amends to redeem himself before his people. The path he has chosen leads to self-destruction”.