The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has said he is prepared to face political persecution after he hands over in 2023. Speaking to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday, Wike said it is certain that political forces will come after him because of his strong views on issues. He further noted that he has moved out of the Government House two years before his tenure ends as part of his preparation. Wike also described the current travails of Okorocha and his family as political persecution. According to him, Okorocha has been having a running battle with his successor, Governor Hope Uzodinma, which has resulted in the seizure of property belonging to his family members as well as facing probe by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “Political prosecution will come especially after you have left office. I know they will come after me but I’m prepared, I am ready for them. “If Rochas was Governor you would have seen a lot of governors here. I came here, I didn’t see any APC member. “Right now, I don’t even live in the Government House. I have packed out, as part of my preparations, even though I still have two more years. “Also, when you have a system that is not doing well, the truth must be told, but people don’t like the truth and that is why they don’t like me. “As long as I’m concerned, I do my things the way I want and nobody can stop me or tell me what to do or who can be my friend. “Owelle is facing a lot of crisis, it is not easy to pass through these crises, but it will come, but it will be over. “I want to encourage him and his son-in-law to be strong. If it doesn’t happen like this, you won’t know that God loves you. You will go through these battles for you to know that there is God,” he said. Recall that Wike earlier stated that stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State will meet at the appropriate time and decide his successor. The Governor said that no single person has the monopoly to decide where the Governorship position of the party will be zoned to.