Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., chieftain of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, has said the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has been infiltrated by terrorists. The senior lawyer claimed that unknown to many, “the Buhari administration has been infiltrated,” and there are moles in the administration who are secretly working for some interests outside this country. “It has always been like that since Jonathan took over from Musa Yar’adua. Late Musa Yar’adua was one person who vehemently opposed the issue of infiltration and his government was short-lived,” he told DAILY POST on Monday. “In 2011 or thereabouts I warned Jonathan that suicide bombings were coming, he never believed it but not quite long Boko Haram started suicide bombings. The lawyer’s comments may not be unconnected to allegations of links with terror groups like Boko Haram, Taliban and Al Qaeda brought against the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami. Following the allegations, Nigerians from all walks of life have asked President Mohammadu Buhari to sack the minister while many others have demanded his honourable resignation. However, Bamgbose said the people should live with the hard truth that, such may not happen. “Those asking for Pantami’s head should better forget it, I seriously doubt if Buhari would agree to that. Isa Pantami is highly connected. He is fantastically rich. “Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, according to Peoples Gazette, also once declared that he was always happy when infidels were massacred. “He is a well known Salafist. Little wonder he has never for once condemned the lawless and reckless activities of the Boko Haram insurgents. “The sad truth however is that there are still others yet to be exposed. The moles are virtually in the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. “Undoubtedly we are such in a very precarious situation in this country. We indeed have a complex crisis that can only be resolved by God’s intervention. “The insecurity we are experiencing in Nigeria is being sponsored. Some top politicians are working for some interests outside the country. “This is really unfortunate. I challenge our religious leaders to pray fervently for this country or else the unexpected and undesirable may happen,” Bamgbose said.