Socio-cultural organizations in the Southeast zone, the World Igbo Peoples Assembly WIPAS and Igbonile have expressed concern over the state of insecurity in the eastern part of Nigeria. The groups frowned at the killing of innocent men and women by killer Fulani herdsmen at Enugu and Ebonyi State, calling on security agents to fish out the perpetrators and ensure they face justice. WIPAS and Igbonile, in a press statement made available to DAILY POST on Friday, threw their weight behind the Eastern Security Network ESN and called on personnel of the IPOB’s regional security outfit to continue to wipe out killer herdsmen in the land. The statement was jointly signed by the BoT chairman Mazi Chuks Ibegbu, Secretary-General, Edomobi Promise, Director of Publicity (IGBONILE), Chinonyerem Dick and Director of Publicity (WIPAS), Okezie Emelike. They equally backed the establishment of Ebubeagu by the South-East governors, saying that they must be well trained and backed by the law to perform their duty well. “They should not be in opposition to the ESN but complementary, “the groups warned. They further called for a quick intervention of Igbo leaders and clergies to bring normalcy to Ohanaeze Ndigbo currently and deeply divided. Parts of the statement read, “We call on Igbo political leaders not performing and serving our people to quit now in their own interest. Some Governors still owe their workers and pensioners and they must clear this or we shall drag them to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission EFCC. “We advise security agents in the East to stop extorting money and intimidating our people to avoid any reaction from the people. We call on President Muhammadu Buhari to engage the agitators in all parts of the country and treat them like a father to halt their extremism. “We are concerned that up till now the President has continued to be nepotic in his appointment and projects. He has been the President of one section of the country against the entire nation. He should change his ways. Although it is becoming too late, he can still change before he quits office and is forgotten by history”.