The Samuel family in Sardauna local government council of Taraba State on Tuesday approached the Justice Christopher Awubra panel to demand justice over the alleged killing of their 18 years old son, Meshack D. Samuel. Meshack, a final year student of the Government Science college Gembu, was said to have been hit by a stray bullet on his way to school. The incident which occurred in September 2010, allegedly led to the sudden death of Meshack’s father who the family described as the “breadwinner” The family is now seeking justice and compensation of N100 million naira. With tears streaming down his cheeks, Raymond Samuel, who took the panel down memory lane on how his younger brother was brutally murdered by the Police, said his late brother left home for school shortly after taking his breakfast, when a policeman in a checkpoint shot at him. In a petition attended to by the judicial panel of enquiry on police brutality in the state, the family said the shock from the incident has devastated the family, leading to the death of the deceased’s father. The family said it was sad that the police have not deemed it fit to extend an olive branch to the family, while the perpetrator has also not been brought to book. “My late brother who was on his way to school after eaten the breakfast prepared by our mother, encountered a flying bullet which was carelessly released by a police officer at a checkpoint claiming to be threatening a suspect who was arrested by them and wanted to escape,” said the petitioner. Raymond also brought a copy of Samuel’s death certificate to the commission and it was accepted as evidence. “My brother died two days after the bullet was removed from his stomach by a doctor.” “My brother died in a pool of blood due to the high-velocity bullet and the spread of its poison to his vital organs.” Describing his late brother as “a brave young scientist that was full of passion and ambition, Raymond said he could not fathom why the police “decided to waste his life”. He said the family is presently going cap in hand seeking how to keep bodies and souls intact. “We are begging this penal to award a compensation of N100 million to our family and to as well help in ensuring that the police officer in question is brought to book. The petition was, however, adjourned for consideration by the panel, DAILY POST reports.