Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Imo State Commissioner for Entrepreneurship and Skill Acquisition, Iyke Ume was attacked by gunmen yesterday at Orji, on Owerri- Okigwe Road, very close to the Orji Divisional Police Headquarters. Police Spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu confirmed the incident. 2. Gunmen allegedly invaded the residence of the popular Yoruba activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, fondly called Sunday Igboho, in the early hours of yesterday, at Soka area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. One of the media aides to Igboho, Dapo Salami confirmed the incident. 3. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday, confirmed that Boko Haram terrorists have seized a territory in Kaure village in Shiroro Local Government Area and have hoisted its flag there. 4. Former Edo State Commissioner for Information, Kassim Afegbua, has dragged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practice and Related Offenses Commission (ICPC) over the management of the finances of the opposition party. Afegbua made this known in a statement, yesterday. 5. Barely four days after the killing of three of the Greenfield University students abducted last Tuesday, two others have been confirmed killed by their abductors. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, disclosed this on Monday. 6. The Federal Government has warned of fake COVID-19 vaccines in circulation in the country. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, made the revelation, during the weekly briefing of the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, yesterday. 7. The Federal Government has suspended a leading media outfit in Nigeria, Channels Television. The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), announced a fine of N5 million for alleged breach of broadcast code. 8. The All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday said that enemies of Imo State attacked the residence of Governor Hope Uzodimma and other public facilities. The party, in a statement on Monday, condemned the target on security personnel and formations in the Southeast. 9. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, described the N5 million fine imposed on Channels Television by the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) over alleged violation of broadcasting code as draconian. The PDP, in a statement, by its National Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan faulted the decision of the commission. 10. The Police in Kebbi State, yesterday, confirmed the killing of a Divisional Police Officer (DPO), eight other policemen and two Yan Sa-Kai operatives (vigilantes) by bandits. They were killed during a gunfight in Sakaba Local Government Areas on Sunday.