A socio-cultural organization, World Igbo Peoples Assembly, WIPAS, has reacted to the death of Dr. Yinka Odumakin. The late Odumakin was a Rights Activist and the spokesman of the apex Yoruba socio-cultural body, Afenifere until his demise. WIPAS, in a press statement issued by its Board of Trustees, Chairman, Mazi Chuks Ibegbu, on Saturday, expressed shock over the demise of Odumakin. The group commiserated with the Yoruba nation, lovers of democracy and Nigerians over the painful news of Yinka’s exit. WIPAS disclosed that it has declared a one-week mourning period for the activist, who they described as a fallen hero that has sacrificed much in deepening the nation’s democracy. Recall that the human rights activist reportedly died from COVID-19 complications. But, Dr Joe Okei Odumakin, wife of the late spokesman of Afenifere, a Pan-Yoruba sociocultural group, Yinka Odumakin, on Saturday, expressed gratitude to Almighty God for Yinka’s life. She revealed that her husband died from respiratory issues due to complications from COVID-19 which he had recovered from about a week ago. Also reacting, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday, expressed shock over the death of the rights activist, social crusader and National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere. This was contained in a statement issued on Saturday, by the National Publicity Secretary of the Party, Kola Ologbondiyan. PDP described the death of Odumakin as a huge loss to the nation and particularly to the PDP, given his erudite contributions to national dialogue and relentless commitment towards the development of democratic ethos in the country. According to the statement, “Odumakin was consistently focused on fighting for a nation in which the principles of equity, fairness and justice will thrive in every sphere of national life. “He dedicated his life as a journalist, human right activist and social crusader for the improvement of the country. “Indeed, if Yinka Odumakin had the last pint of blood in his vein and there was a need to drop same for democracy to be strengthened in our country, he would have readily made it available” “Our party commiserates with his dear wife, Joe, who has also remained steadfast in fighting for human rights, good governance, credible elections as well as justice, especially for the downtrodden. The PDP, however, condoled with the larger Odumakin family, the Afenifere fold as well as the civil society community while offering prayers to God to grant the nation the fortitude to bear the huge loss”. Recall that the human rights activist reportedly died from COVID-19 complications. But, Dr Joe Okei Odumakin, wife of the late Afenifere spokesman on Saturday, expressed gratitude to Almighty God for his life. She revealed that her husband died from respiratory issues due to complications from COVID-19 which he had recovered from about a week ago.