The Tangale Community Overseas, TCO, from Gombe State, said the ongoing stool debacle in the Tangale nation is emblematic of the Fulani conquest strategy in the state. It said the development is a wake up call to all minority tribes in the Middle Belt of Nigeria, stressing, “We must draw the attention of the world to the design and implementation of the Dan Fodio conquest motif that was interrupted by the British colonization of Nigeria. The Fulani has claimed that the end of the British colonial government, which had favoured them in the indirect rule implemented in Northern Nigeria, was the start of their full control of Nigeria.” The General Secretary, Tangale Community Overseas, Lamela Umaru Lakorok, in a statement and made available to DAILY POST in Kadunaon Tuesday, said, the past actions of the Fulani emirate system, they used the Middle Belt military powerhouse to almost eliminate the Igbo tribe in the name of patriotism and unity of Nigeria. According to the statement, “We see the use of religion as a political tool to divide families and tribes both in the past and the present. For the Fulani enthusiasts, it is not enough that one embraces Islam, one must accept the Fulani language and culture as tantamount to the religion itself or one is considered a second-class Muslim.” The statement explained that they (Fulani) are hiding behind religion to impose their political rule on a people is the brains behind the recent developments in the traditional rulership of Tula, Dadiya, and Tangale in Gombe state. The group lamented that the government imposed on these tribal groups Muslim rulers of a specific blend, citing example of the previous Mai Tangles had embraced Islam and have many descendants who are Muslim, including one of the contestants for the current throne won by Dr. Musa Idris Mai Yamba. The statement noted that with a stellar resume in law enforcement that culminated in the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Alh Ahmadu Gimba Magaji was not considered a worthy Muslim by Gov. Inuwa Yahaya, stressing that what is it in Mallam Mai Shanu that Gov. Yahaya finds qualifying for the Mai Tangle stool? It observed that the inauguration of a so-called Commission of Inquiry into Billiri Violent Protests by Gov. Yahaya is a farce, saying that the governor has portrayed himself as an objective leader seeking truth through the establishment of a commission. “However, the governor is an interested party in the scuffle. If the purpose of the commission is to explore the truth of what led to the killings and wanton destruction of property during the crisis, why did the governor arrest and continue to arrest people without charges? He has already acted as prosecutor, judge, jury, and executioner when he not only arrested the people, but also denied them bail according to the rule of law. Setting up a commission of inquiry two months after the event, during which time the governor made repulsive and inciteful comments about the situation and the people of Tangale, is dubious,” the statement observed. The group advised the National Assembly to set up an independent committee because the governor’s integrity is compromised, and a committee setup by him is already tainted by his actions. It said it is time for Tangale-Waja, and indeed, all the Middle Belt region, to wake up and try to save what is left of their identities, stressing that they do not be deceived by the couching of religion, it is a wolf in sheep clothing. The group noted that the Fulani agenda, as seen in all of Nigeria, is the desire for power, adding that the Gombe State is only symptomatic of the problem. “Nigeria is at risk of dismemberment. We do not cede our tribal rights and identities to another. It is for this reason that the Tangale people remain united in purpose against the lawless actions of the governor,” the group observed.