Senior Pastor of Awaiting The Second Coming Of Christ Ministry, Adewale Giwa, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to listen to the cries of Nigerians and allow them to go in peace. Giwa, in a statement to DAILY POST on Saturday, specifically warned president Buhari to stop acting like the biblical King Pharaoh who refused to let the Israelites go until God dealt with him. According to the cleric, keeping Nigerians together by force and continue to mistreat them will lead to failure within a short period of time. On Oduduwa Republic’s agitation, Giwa urged Yoruba leaders to swing into action and draft out a solid constitution for the region. “Very quickly, the leaders of Yoruba should come together and give us a solid constitution that will make Oduduwa Republic one of the best nations in the world. “In doing this, religious leaders must be carried along too. This is what God has designed and there is no man that can change it. “President Buhari should listen to the cries of Nigerians and allow them to go in peace. You can’t continue to keep the people together while mistreating them. “Since 2015, you have been watching your people killing, raping and kidnapping other ethnic groups but failed woefully to control them. “What kind of a president are you when you cannot provide adequate security and jobs for Nigerians? Under your watch, over forty percent of people continue to live in poverty. “Under your leadership, a bag of Cement is being sold for N3,500. What happens to rice, beans and Gari? “How much is a litre of petrol? Do you know how many people who are dying of hunger on a daily basis in Nigeria? “I am sure no one would have survived this if Buhari’s predecessors had ruled Nigeria the same way the All Progressives Congress is ruling. “President Buhari has led Nigeria astray, and it’s high time he allowed people to make their decisions. A sane person would have quickly called for a referendum to let people make their best choices and decisions. “President Buhari should stop acting like king Pharaoh; listen to the cries of the oppressed and free Nigerians from poverty, economic hardship and insecurity. “Twitter has left Nigeria for Ghana, Germany is also backing the establishment of African Centre for Global Health and Pandemic Prevention in Ghana. So, tell me what is left in Nigeria? “It’s a signal that Nigeria doesn’t exist anymore. Bad governance and insecurity have discouraged foreign investors to establish their businesses in Nigeria.”