About three hours of rain and thunderstorm which occurred on Thursday destroyed property worth billions of Naira in Calabar South and its environs. DAILY POST after investigations, reports that trees felt on top of vehicles while rooftops of several houses including schools, residential houses were blown off. Large and small billboards were brought down while close to 50 electric poles and high tension wires were also brought down from various locations by the storm. Big trees were also seen on the ground blocking the roads and disrupting traffic. Consequently, economic and social activities have seriously been affected as most of the shops, stores, market, restaurant and other places were destroyed. Speaking to our correspondent a victim of the disaster, Efffiong Udo Akpan said his store was brought down, “The rain started at 4pm and within a period of two, three hours, everything was brought down, I lost property worth hundreds of thousands of naira. “Over 100 houses have been affected and property including furniture, electronic, office equipment, churches, schools and buildings were all affected” he stated. At the time of filing this report, personnel from the Calabar Urban Development Authority (CUDA) and Ministry of Environment were seen cutting trees and moving them off to clear the roads The heavy downpour also caused severe havoc and damages at the State’s General Hospital located at Mary Slessor Calabar. Locations affected in the hospital include the Post Natal Ward, where windows to the theatre was destroyed, the storm a;so pulled down roofs of most offices and medical wards. Activities in the hospital has now been disrupted drawing the attention of the Honorable Commissioner for Health Dr Betta Edu. Dr. Edu who arrived at the hospital a few minutes after the incident lamented the level of destruction noting that violent rainstorm did not spare the entire state capital as major damages were recorded across locations. “I must confess that this is a very sad and unfortunate situation as the rain came along with a heavy storm and wind causing major damages across the facility and the town. We’ve never had any case of flooding in General Hospital so today’s incident I must say is the first of its kind and we regret every inconvenience this might have caused our patients. “Most disturbing is the fact that mothers who just put to bed have being disturbed as a result of this incident, even though it’s a natural phenomenon, as a state, we’ll ensure proper renovation. Windows will be changed and extended nets introduced and all affected roofs changed tomorrow morning. Dr Edu sympathized with the victims as she went round all the wards to console everyone affected, assuring them of more quality services. Mrs Lucy Etta, who was just delivered of a baby, commended the proactive and speedy responses of the Commissioner, describing her prompt visit to the patients as a clear attribute of a leader who considers her people’s wellbeing first. “Am shocked that this lady left her Church program to come check on our welfare, we haven’t had it this good as outside this ugly incident which is only but natural, I must confess that the services offered us here is many times different from what this hospital has been known for.