No fewer than 19 persons have been killed, while scores sustained varying degrees of injury in Awkuzu community of Anambra State, following attack by unknown persons on members of the community. DAILY POST gathered that the attack happened on Monday morning in the community, which also serves as residence to students of Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University (COOU), Igbariam. Sources, mostly students of COOU, told our correspondent that students whose hostels are located in the area and other residents in the area have all fled for fear of another round of attack. One of the sources said, “At about 2am today, we heard sustained gunshots, and everyone was afraid. In the morning, we found out that many people had been killed. “As I speak to you, I have left our hostel, and many other students have left too, for fear of another attack.” Meanwhile, Anambra State police Command has confirmed the attack, saying that normalcy has returned to the area, following the intervention of the Anambra State Police Commissioner. The spokesperson of the state police command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, however, said only nine persons were killed. Ikenga said, “The Commissioner Of Police Anambra State Police Command, CP Monday Bala Kuryas has ordered the immediate deployment of the Command’s operational and intelligence assets to identify and apprehend the unknown armed men. “They violently attacked Ukpomachi Village, Awkuzu in Oyi LGA of the State, in the early hours of 26th, April 2021. “Meanwhile, a crack team of police operatives of the command, led by an Assistant Commissioner of Police, visited the scene and conducted on-spot-the assessment of the incidence and have successfully restored normalcy in the area and adequate security emplaced to forestall further occurrence.” Ikenga added that, “The assailants, said to be armed with machetes and other dangerous weapons, invaded the village in their numbers and attacked the residents, resulting in the death of nine persons, whose identities are unknown. Injuries on some others as well as destruction of buildings and livestock were also registered. “To this end, the CP, while reassuring Ndi Anambra, particularly people of the Community, of the Command’s resolve to get to the root of the incidence, has called on them to remain calm and volunteer useful information that will enable the police and other security agencies collaboratively handle and bring the situation to a logical conclusion,” he said.