The Cross River State Carnival Commission has hailed the Commissioner of Police, CP S. K. Akande, and the Assistant Commissioner of Police Department of Operations, ACP Cletus Chris Nwadiogbu for their contribution to the security of Cross River State. The duo were honored on 3rd of April, 2021 by the Commission. The CP was honored not only for his role as the Mopol Commander which created a conducive environment for the commencement of carnival in 2004, but for also re-enacting the same performance within few months as CP CRS. On the other hand, the AC OPS, ACP Cletus Nwadiogbu who was described as “the pillar of carnival security” by some of the invited guests and members of the commission, was honoured for his selfless, professional, and relentless commitment to duty which ensured peaceful and crime-free conduct of carnival activities and Christmas celebrations since 2016. Speaking with DAILY POST, the Assistant Commissioner of Police, in charge of operations, ACP Cletus Nwadiogbu lamented the activities of hoodlums in the state, noting that with the digitalized technology, the hoodlums will be flushed out. “Presently, we are digitalizing policing in Cross River State since criminality is going digital. We are also going to digitalize our operations, we have to go ahead of the criminals; that is what we are trying to bring in,” he stated. Nwadiogbu who said that by the grace of God and by the end of this month, nobody will hear anything about kidnapping said, ”If you hear kidnapping, the next thing you will hear will be he has been caught.” On his recognition, he said, “I am very much at alert. it is a motivation, it is good when you work, somebody by the side will say well done and when you are told well done, it energizes you to work more.” Also speaking, the Commissioner of Police, CP Sikiru Akande told our correspondent that security situation in the state has improved, noting that when he came in 2002, it was worse. “When we came in 2002, Calabar was worse than this when I came, and we were able to do it, as at 2002, by 7pm it was completely dead. It was the hard work we put in before the election in 2003 that helped us. When I was commander of Mopol, I have 600 Policemen but as commissioner of Police today, I have 5,000 men so Cross Riverians should be rest assure that we are going to put more energy to secure Cross River State. “When the state is secured, tourism will develop and luckily for me, I have a brother here who is willing to serve the state and two of us are at the helm of affairs, creating an enabling environment for security development of the state. “We are going to partner more and stronger so that we make sure that Cross River State is peaceful,” the CP stated.