Chief Wole Olanipekun(SAN), a legal luminary, has condemned the killings of six persons during a cult clash in Ikere Ekiti, Ikere Local government of Ekiti State last week. Olanipekun, who regretted the killings, hinged the upsurge of cultism and crime in the country on youth unemployment, urging well-meaning patriots to place a high premium on youth empowerment to complement the government’s efforts. This came as the Ogoga of Ikere Ekiti, Oba Adejimi Adu, appealed to parents to guard their children against arson attacks, political thuggery and cultism, threatening to invoke the spirit against crime perpetrators in the town. Six persons were shot dead in the town last week Sunday during a bloody clash between two rival cult groups, throwing the state into deep mourning and panic. The Senior Lawyer, who spoke in Ikere Ekiti on Saturday when his foundation sponsored some and youth and the aged in the town, said the measure was conceived to reduce the crime rate and promotion of small scale businesses. The Legal Icon said, “How can our youth and our future be killing in the name of cultism? We need to help the government to engage our unemployed youth. This shouldn’t be left to the government alone. The killing has portrayed us in a bad light. We shouldn’t be in the news for negative reasons. “I was saddened when I heard that six of our youth were killed. Though not all of them were indigenes, but we need to look inwards and protect our town from being turned into a killing field”. “We know that things are very bad economically. Our economy, according to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele is in a bad shape. He didn’t pretend about it. Poverty is high. But with this kind of entrepreneurial encouragement and gift to our aged, our youths can be more productive”, he added. Angered by the increasing crime rate in the town, Oba Adu warned criminals against the wrath o the gods. “We will invoke the spirit against cultists because we won’t allow them to spoil the reputation of this town. We will place a curse on them, but before we do that, they must change and if they refuse to change, they will face the consequences. “How can people be doing cultism? What is it for? What are they trying to gain? What is their mission? My people should prevent them from making Ikere Ekiti a safe haven for bad boys. We won’t allow it”, he said. The monarch, who bemoaned that it was only in Ikere that police stations were razed during the EndSARS protest, said: ” It is a failure of the parents for the children to go into thuggery. Don’t allow anyone to use you for thuggery. Let us try and guard our children”, he advised.