The People’s Democratic Party, (PDP), in Yobe State on Monday held a delegates’ congress in Damaturu. The congress which produced 39 new executive members came after about a year without substantive state leaders following rivalry and other crises that plagued the party during the period. Among the 39 new officials are Ambassador Umar Mohammed El-Gash emerging as the Yobe State Chairman of the opposition party, Engineer Mohammed Jajere, elected as the Deputy Chairman while Sani Mohammed Bilal is to serve as the Secretary of the party. Others are Husaini Yaroro Vice-Chairman Zone A, Hassan Shariff is now the Vice-Chairman Zone B and Alhaji Gafchia, elected as the Zone C Vice-Chairman and Wambai Bulama as a Youth Leader. In his acceptance speech, the new chairman of the party said in an election everyone is a winner, While commending the delegates for the confidence they reposed in him and other officials, El-Gash assured them that no one will be left behind. “We will immediately start working by reaching out to our esteemed party members, uniting and refocusing our party into a formidable and strong opposition to provide a better alternative to our people in winning elections”. He said there is no better time for the party to be committed, united and focused than now, “considering the mismanagement of public resources and misapplication of priorities by the APC-led government in Yobe State”. Chief Gebon Kataps, Chairman of the Electoral Committee who expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the election, noting that PDP in Yobe state is now stable. “My message to PDP members in Yobe would be if we have to take the seat of the state we have to look at credible and acceptable candidates to all the party members and we have to look at a party man that is a mobilizer who can deliver dividends of democracy to people of Yobe state. “If we get that correct with the unity in the party now, PDP should be able to reclaim the leadership of the state”. Former Minister of Police Affairs and PDP Chieftain in Yobe State, Adamu Maina Waziri who witnessed the election said the election will infuse some vibrancy into the party. “We hope that the election today will infuse some vibrancy into the party and the party will play its roles as an opposition party in the state to provide alternative views to the government in power so that at the end of the day the government will be self-correcting and will be able to do its duties to uplift the living standard of people in Yobe state”, Waziri hoped.