Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Bandits in the early hours of yesterday invaded a military base in Allawa, Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State and killed five soldiers and a mobile policeman. The entire military camp was razed by the bandits. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians not to allow the antics of a few mischief mongers to fragment the unity and faith that the vast majority of citizens of the country cherish and believe in. The President stated this in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina. 3. The Federal Government, yesterday, warned that those yet to obtain their National Identity Number (NIN) risk seven or 14 years imprisonment as stipulated by the Nigerian Constitution. Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, stated this at the sixth edition of ministerial briefing by the Presidential Media Team at Aso Villa, Abuja. 4. An air force jet on a support mission in Borno State was yesterday, declared missing after battle with the Boko Haram insurgents. The Nigerian Air Force Alpha Jet was on an interdiction mission in support of ground troops. 5. The Independent National Electoral Commission on Thursday rejected the mandatory use of National Identity Number for the Continuous Voter Registration which recommences on June 28, 2021, in the 774 Local Government Areas ahead of the 2023 general election. 6. Members of the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, yesterday, commenced a nationwide strike despite the Federal Government’s efforts to stop the action. NARD made the announcement on Thursday in a message posted on the association’s Twitter account. 7. The Anambra State Command of the Nigeria Police Force on Thursday, announced that four additional suspects were arrested in connection to the attack on Prof Chukwuma Soludo, on Wednesday. The spokesperson of the Anambra State police command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, stated this in a statement yesterday. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, asked the Senate to confirm Justice Salisu Abdullahi as substantive Chief Judge of the High Court in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Buhari’s spokesman, Femi Adesina made this known in a statement yesterday. 9. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has extended its ongoing nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise by three weeks. Sen. John Akpanudoedehe, National Secretary of the party’s Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (ECPC), announced the extension in a statement on Thursday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 106 more cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 11 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded infections in the country so far to 162,997.