Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has signed into law, the Abia State Water Bill 2021 which was recently passed by the State House of Assembly and also launched the Abia State Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Policy (WASH). The Governor also declared a state of emergency on the WASH sector in the state. Speaking at the event on Tuesday, Governor Ikpeazu said the essence of the law is to provide the legal framework to guide the state actions concerning the provision of potable water to all households in the state.  He explained that water was essential for the socio-economic development of the state as well as the building of a healthy society. Dr. Ikpeazu said the law makes it mandatory for the government to do the needful to give water to the people, adding that it also spells out the responsibilities of the citizenry. He further said the WASH policy is well-thought-out with about seven components as well as what the state stands to gain from it. The Abia Chief Executive disclosed that with the new law and the declaration of the State of Emergency in the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Sector, people are no longer allowed to defecate in the open as it will give greater impetus to the Ministry of Environment to enforce the new regulations. Governor Ikpeazu appealed to development partners to continue to rise to the support of the state. Presenting the Abia State Water Bill, the Secretary to the State government SSG, and Chairman, Steering Committee on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene, Barrister Chris Ezem described the signing of the bill into law as a milestone.  He disclosed that the State has continued to partner USAID E-WASH over time, adding that, the partnerships are increasing with new projects such as rehabilitating the Ariaria and Ubakala Water Schemes as well as deliver ICT equipment in the water sector. Ezem said that signing the Water Bill into Law will facilitate those projects and bring other benefits to the state. In their remarks earlier, the acting Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Public Utilities, Friday Chika and the General Manager, Abia State Water Board, Leo Ogbonna said the signing of the bill is the beginning of good things in the state as it will reduce the mortality rate as a result of water-borne diseases in the state. DAILY POST reports that the Abia Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Ude Oko Chukwu and some members of the State Executive Council, Permanent Secretaries and other top government officials were present at the event. 