Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has described the judgement of the State Election Tribunal as a true reflection of the position of the Law and the collective wish of the people. Akeredolu similarly posited that he had no enemies to hold any grudges against as a result of the Tribunal case. The Governor made this known shortly after the Election Tribunal struck out the case brought before it by Eyitayo Jegede, the PDP governorship candidate in the October 10, 2020 governorship election. “For every purpose and mission endorsed by God, the will to navigate the clouds of uncertainties and the path of thorns becomes stronger if backed by faith. In our case, our faith is unshakable. It is, therefore, with gratitude to God that we accept the verdict of the Honourable Tribunal. “We have gone through this legal process and the path of Justice with the hope that the true position of the Law shall once again, be examined and expoused. The industry and legal expertise demonstrated by the Honourable Tribunal has corroborated this desire. “We were equally enamoured by the inexorable quest to renew our social bond with the good people of the state while the legal tussle was on. In an unambiguous manner, the Tribunal’s verdict has further fermented this bond and strengthened the wish of the people. “Notwithstanding, the legal process was not just part of our democratic culture. Legal paths, without doubt, provide in some cases, certain opportunities that permeate fresh frontiers. “Therefore, the ability to extend the hands of friendship, the courage to absorb even the undeserving as well as the magnanimity to reinvigorate old, laxed relationships without grudges is what makes a real democrat. I hold no grudges against anyone. “Once again, the good people of Ondo State, without any stratification, remain my constituents. We shall together, move the State to higher and loftier heights. “For my brother, friend and colleague, Eyitayo Jegede, my respect for him cannot wane and I enjoin him to join hands with us in this Ondo Project. There is no victor, no vanquished.