The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated the newly elected zonal executives of the South West and North Central for their display of sportsmanship, in line with the ideologies of the party in the just-concluded zonal congresses of the party. The party in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan and obtained by DAILY POST, noted that the rancour-free atmosphere in the keenly contested congress as well as the spirit of sportsmanship and maturity displayed by aspirants, leaders, stakeholders and members of the party in the exercise also gave credence to its free, fair and credible internal democratic processes. While commending all the aspirants, the PDP said that despite the doomsday prediction of naysayers, the successful conduct of its zonal congress in the two zones confirmed that the party is united and poised for the task ahead. “We commend the commitment of party leaders and elders in the two zones for ensuring genuine reconciliation and understanding among all stakeholders leading to the successful conduct of the exercise. “The party asserts that the spirit of sportsmanship and unprecedented zeal displayed by critical stakeholders and members of the party in the exercise is an unmistaken pointer that the PDP is indeed poised to take back its political dominance in the two zones.” The PDP maintained that the peace and understanding that pervaded the exercise in the two zones have also shown that the PDP is a party of patriotic Nigerians, who put the collective interest of Nigeria over all parochial consideration, in the all-important task to rescue her from the misrule of the 1All Progressives Congress (APC). It called on all members in the two zones to remain united and continue to work hard adding that Nigerians are looking unto the PDP for direction in their quest to return Nigeria to the path of peace, economic prosperity and national cohesiveness. DAILY POST had reported the South West and North Central zonal congresses of the PDP which took place in Osogbo, Osun State and Makurdi, Benue State respectively. At the South-West zonal congress, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja defeated his opponent Dr. Eddy Olafeso with a margin of 343 to 330 votes.