The All Progressives Congress (APC) is split over the purported tenure extension plan by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The committee, led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, was constituted after the ouster of National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, in 2020. Although, the CECPC got an extension to stay on till June 2021, there are speculations that the interim leadership is not willing to leave. On Thursday, the party notified the public of the extension of its nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise by three weeks. It was alleged that the initial plot was to stretch by six to eight weeks. Those who want the Buni-led team out vehemently kicked. They stated that with the APC expected to conduct its national convention in June, an additional two months was a ploy to extend the CECPC’s stint. Their alarm, reported in the media, has been linked to the “reduced time frame” the National Secretary, John Akpan Udoedehe, announced in a statement. Among the categories of party stalwarts against the convention holding anytime soon are governors not in control of the party structure in their states. Another category believes the emergence of new national officers will expose the zoning arrangement the APC intends to adopt ahead of 2023. The other category has those close to the current leadership and are seeking to retain their seats or aspire for political offices in the next general elections. In a statement Friday night, the APC Forum of State Caretaker Chairmen declared it was on good terms with the CECPC. Ali Buka-Dalori, the head and Borno Caretaker Committee Chairman, recalled that they unanimously agreed on the need for an extension of the membership and revalidation process. “We are happy the CECPC acceded to our pleas by granting a three-week extension to accommodate states requiring additional time to conclude the exercise and capture millions of Nigerians desirous of joining the APC. “At no time during the meeting of APC state caretaker chairmen or in our briefing to media organisations was anything related to tenure elongation deliberated or mentioned.” Buka-Dalori noted that the CECPC has surpassed its mandate to reposition and bring unity to the ruling party. “We will continue to support its efforts to ensure the completion of all the tasks assigned by the National Executive Committee (NEC) and further entrench the APC as a truly progressive political platform”, he said.