The Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Saturday expressed his administration’s commitment to enhance the capacity of Sharia court judges (khadis) in the State. Speaking at the swearing in of the state acting Grand Khadi Umar Ahmed Liman at the Government House, Bauchi, the governor declared that the khadis’s capacity ought to be enhanced for them to be able to enforce, discipline, reward and punish. According to him, this was imperative in view of the fact that people had perceived Sharia courts and khadis only as toothless bulldogs that could only bark but not bite. Governor Mohammed noted that the judiciary has come to stay as it is the last hope of the common man in view of its role in the dispensation of justice. He said a lot of criminal activities usually take place in the rural areas, adding that the judiciary was needed to restore peace, security and tranquility in those areas. While saying that he never knew the acting Grand Khadi before his appointment, the governor said due process was followed in his (Grand Khadi’s) appointment and called on him to entrench justice and equity. “I must congratulate the Chief Judge of Bauchi State for doing things with justice and equity. I have never seen my brother before, that is the acting grand Khadi, neither have I seen the one before him. “But we follow procedures and I believe that you were able to entrench due process, justice, equity and succession plan. There could be people closer to me than Khadi Umar, but he is the most suited, fitted and selected on due process,” Governor Mohammed said. The governor further tasked the acting Grand Khadi to bring the implementation of Sharia doctrine to bear in the state and expressed disappointment that Sharia judges have not had the teeth to bite. “Khadi Umar is carrying a big task on his head. So we are expecting him to bring the implementation of Sharia doctrine into play in such a manner that it will have a salutary effect on Bauchi State. We need the peace, we need the enforcement of reward and punishment. “I must say I am disappointed with our other leg, that is the Sharia and the Khadis; they have not been having the teeth to bite. They must be able to do it in such a manner that they will be the hope to enforce discipline because they have all it takes,” he said. While assuring the new acting Grand Khadi of government’s readiness to give him all the support he needs to succeed, Governor Mohammed admonished him to tackle the issue of corruption taking place at the smaller Sharia courts in the state, particularly in the rural areas.