As the heatwave continues to bite, the Yobe State Ministry of Health and Human Services has advised residents to adopt measures to keep them safe. Dr. Mohammed Lawan Gana, the Commissioner for Health in a statement on Friday explained that the high temperature and intensive heat could have an adverse effect on health. He said the environmental temperature in Yobe State could rise to 45 degrees centigrade and above, especially within April and May before the onset of the rainy season. “With the current weather situation, it is expected that the month of Ramadan for this year 1442 AH (2021 AD) will be during hot weather. Therefore it has become necessary to remind people about the effect of heat on their health”. Dr. Gana explained that during the hot weather, the human body tries to balance the internal body temperature to remain stable through sweating, “when air blows on the sweat the skin temperature cools and then the whole body cools and stabilizes”. “However, sweating causes loss of water and some essential electrolytes that are needed for the body to maintain good health. Therefore, the brain sends a signal that causes thirst and naturally when a person drinks water the fluid lost during sweating and other means is replaced and the electrolytes and other essential nutrients are replaced from the food we eat”. He said some of the effects of the hot weather include loss of body water and electrolytes from the body can result in thirst, severe dehydration, profuse sweating, nausea, headache, fatigue, irritability, dizziness, muscle cramps and reduction in physical activity as well as mental alertness. Others are difficulty in breathing, heat exhaustion, heatstroke, worsening of preexisting chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, respiratory diseases, kidney disease and death among others. Dr. Gana pointed out that hundreds of people die every year across the world as a result of extreme heat, but said that most of the deaths and illnesses are preventable. The Commissioner listed measures that could be adopted as a remedy to the situation to include, wearing light articles of clothing, light-coloured and loose-fitting clothes, staying under tree shades and environments with a lot of ventilation where the temperature is low and cool. “Avoid hot and heavy meals as they add heat to the body.
“Stay hydrated by drinking lots of water and more fluids generally.
“Drink more fluids, regardless of how active you are.
“Stay away from very sugary or alcoholic drinks”.