The North Central Zonal Elective Congress of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, on Saturday ended in Makurdi with a call on the newly elected officials by Governor Samuel Ortom to respect the party’s constitution. Speaking at the end of the event which held at the Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi, Governor Ortom said with fairness, equity and justice in dealings with members, PDP could wax stronger to reclaim its rightful place in the scheme of things in the country. According to him, the failure of the All Progressives Congress, APC’s leadership in the country was an avenue for Nigerians to look up to the PDP and it was therefore, incumbent on the party to put its house in order to wrestle power in 2,023. Governor Ortom, who pointed out that the PDP has lessons after losing to APC over the years stressed the need for all members especially the party’s leaders to work towards amending mistakes of the past for a secured future. The Governor expressed appreciation to the PDP caucus leaders for providing the enabling environment for successful Congress and expressed the hope that the spirit would be maintained. Also speaking, former Senate president, Bukola Saraki observed that the successful hosting of PDP Governors in his state demonstrated Governor Ortom’s strength of character and the desire for unity and progress of Benue and the country at large. Senator Saraki maintained that it was time the people of North Central in the country reclaimed their leadership mandate which could be achieved through unity and collaboration. Former Senate Presidents from Benue State, David Mark and Iyorchia Ayu, all acknowledged the sterling leadership qualities of Governor Ortom and expressed hope that the PDP would reclaim the country come 2023. On his part, former Governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliu, who spoke on behalf of former Governors, said they were happy with the performance of Governor Ortom and his predecessor, Gabriel Suswam and stressed the need for them to continue to work together for the good of their people and the country. In a remark, Senator Philip Aduda of the Federal Capital Territory Abuja who spoke on behalf of members of the National Assembly, said all that the party was doing at the moment showed it had commenced a march towards 2023 for which they ought to remain focused.