A faction of Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), the highest Igbo youth group, has warned the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, to stop linking Professor George Obiozor to the death of Eastern Security Network (ESN) commander in Imo State, Ikonso Don. DAILY POST recall that the leader of IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, had in a statement through Emma Powerful, the spokesman of the pro-Biafra group, accused Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma and the President General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor of the killing of Ikonso Don. Ikonso Don, commander of the Eastern Security Network, ESN, was confirmed killed by the military. ESN is the militia wing of the Indigenous People of Biafra. The federal government had proscribed the organisation led by fugitive Nnamdi Kanu. However, the Ohanaeze faction, in a statement issued on Tuesday, by its President, Igboayaka O. Igboayaka, appealed to the pro-Biafra group not to link Obiozor to the Ikonso’s death, describing the latter as a true definition of Biafra emancipation. The Igbo youth group said, “Anyone with a sense of history ought to know the role Prof. Obiozor played in President Shagari administration to bring Dim Odimegwu Ojukwu back to Nigeria. Dim Odimegwu Ojukwu return to Nigeria after the War was the brainchild of Prof. George Obiozor, therefore Obiozor who played such a role can’t in any way stand against IPOB members. Continuing, OYC added, “The approach of the Nigerian government over IPOB and ESN issues is characterised by hate and injustice against Ndigbo. If Boko haram and banditry gangs are treated like kings in the North, IPOB/ESN who are merely seeking for separation and protection of their father’s land should also be treated like kings. If Boko haram and bandits are assigned for rehabilitation, IPOB members must be treated with dialogue and negotiation.” Ohanaeze youth condemned the killing of members of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) by Nigerian security agents and described such action as hatred against Ndigbo. The group also described the attack on Governor Hope Uzodinma’s house as unfortunate and unacceptable, pointing out that violence in any form in Igbo land should be avoided by every means necessary. OYC warned the few political elements planning and sponsoring attacks against Governor Uzodinma should retrace their steps and embrace peace or be ready to contend with those who believe in the governor and Imo people at large. “The Nigerian government that killed Ikonso and other IPOB members has demonstrated unprofessionalism in handling the situation. The Igbo group in the past, proposed amnesty for Eastern Security Network and to integrate them into the mainstream security network in the various communities, but the Federal Government has failed to implement the proposal, because President Muhammadu Buhari and Aso Rock cabals are not interested in peace and unity in Nigeria”. It, however, urged the State and Federal government to immediately call IPOB for dialogue to avoid uncontrollable national disaster.