Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Gunmen suspected to be members of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorist group on Friday evening attacked Gaidam town in Yobe State, setting several government and private establishments on fire. ASP Dungus Abdulkarim, PPRO Yobe State Police Command confirmed the attack. 2. The presidency, yesterday, claimed that certificate forgery involving Kemi Adeosun, former Finance Minister, is worse than Isa Ali Pantami’s views on terror groups. The spokesman to President Muhammadu Buhari stated this on Friday when he appeared on Channels TV. 3. The Kaduna State Government on Friday, confirmed that three of the abducted Greenfield University students were shot dead by their abductors. Mr Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs made this known yesterday in a statement. 4. The Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Communication, House of Representatives, Unyime Idem, yesterday, said Nigerians will soon be enjoying pay-per-view bouquets on cable TV. While briefing journalists in Abuja on Friday, Idem said he and others had sponsored a bill that passed second reading on Thursday to grant powers to the NBC to regulate tariffs imposed on subscribers by service providers. 5. The Senior Pastor of Abuja-based Dunamis International Gospel Centre, Dr Paul Enenche, has described reports in some quarters that his church recently acquired a private jet as absolutely false and untrue. Enenche made this known in a statement on Friday through his Secretary, Sylvester Edoh. 6. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, said the Presidency’s support for embattled Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, confirms the federal government’s alleged support for terrorism. PDP made this known on Friday in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. 7. The Nigerian Army yesterday, recovered the body of the RSM that was declared missing after armed bandits attacked their camp in the Zagzaga community in the Munya local government area of the state. 8. The Senator representing Kaduna Central zone, Uba Sani has charged the Service Chiefs to rise to the occasion with all seriousness to defeat bandits and other criminal elements to save the country from daily bloodletting. He stated this on Friday in a statement, while condemning the killing of three students out of the several abducted victims of Greenfield University in Kaduna. 9. The Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND has raised the alarm that some unscrupulous persons were parading letters purportedly from the panel to seek assistance from heads of agencies and tertiary institutions in the country. A statement by the Clerk to the Committee, Dr Mustapha Bintube, condemned the act. 10. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, approved the restoration of OMLs 123, 124, 126 And 137 leases to the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, which is in a production sharing contract with Addax Petroleum, a company of the Government of China), on the blocks. The president’s spokesman, Garba Shehu made this known in a statement on Friday.