Kaduna-born actress and Television presenter, Rachel Bakam, is dead. She died after a brief illness. She was 38 years old. She died on Tuesday at a private hospital in Abuja and tributes have flooded her social media pages. Bakam was the CEO and Managing Director of Rayzeds Media Ltd, Founder & President of the Nigerian Water Ski And Wakeboard Federation (NWWF). Reacting to the tragic news, Chocolate City Founder, Audu Maikori wrote: “The last chat I had with Rachel Bakam was on the 1st of April 2021. She said ‘I just received bad and troubling news, I am speechless’ I asked her what happened- clearly alarmed and she replied ‘it’s April fools day bro! LOL’ and my fear turned into a smile. “She then proceeded to tell me about her latest fundraising drive to empower Southern Kaduna women in the rural areas by providing seed money and equipment for them. “We chatted a little more about it and signed off. Little did I know that less than 2 weeks later I would be the one who received the “bad and troubling news” of her death!! “Rachel was a very inspiring woman, sister and mother- always had a smile, always positive and very very clear about her goals. I met her probably 17 years ago in Kaduna through a mutual friend and later on with her then husband Israel Edjeren. More recently, we were in the same Kaduna Creative group where we mentor, support and share opportunities for empowerment – and she was always very active, passionate about any project concerning Southern Kaduna and Kaduna state as a whole- but with a keen focus on helping the less privileged and the displaced refugees across the country. “The lady was always so busy I even used to wonder when she ever got to rest with her packed schedule! “There have been quite a few deaths recently, but this one hit me hard!!! It hit us all very very hard cos we lost a true gem, the space she occupied, not many can fill today because she had a special flair about what she did and that flair was driven by her passion for her people. She will be dearly missed by us all.”