The Ogun State Chapter of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has warned the lawmaker representing Ijebu-North/Ijebu-East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency, Hon. Adesegun Adekoya, to stop dabbling into students’ politics. NANS in a statement on Monday accused Adekoya of sponsoring another faction led by Adeyemi Samson Ajasa, saying he was fanning the embers of discord. DAILY POST recalls that Ajasa, a student of Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, recently came out to say he was the duly elected NANS Chairman in Ogun State. In the statement he signed personally, Damilola Simeon, said he was “the original and duly elected Chairman of NANS in Ogun.” Simeon cautioned the Deputy Minority Whip to stop promoting those he described as impostors or face the wrath of Nigerian students. “As students’ leaders in Ogun State, we will not fold our arms and allow any intruder or selfish politician to be sponsoring leadership crisis among students leaders in the state, all in the bid to protect their political and egocentric interest. “It is obvious that Hon. Adekoya who has a 2023 gubernatorial ambition has been building his files and ranks in anticipation of the polls. “While we do not antagonise his right to vote and be voted for, we, however, condemn his ploy to enjoy the support of the Nigerian Students in Ogun State through the backdoor. “Hon. Adekoya, through Samson Ajasa have caused several embarrassments, disruptions and divisions in the Students’ Constituency after various failed attempts to buy the loyalty of the great Nigerian Students in the Gateway state. “We advise Hon. Adekoya in his best interest to desist from this degrading enterprise and stop harming the reputation of the Federal House of Representatives or risk being declared persona non-grata by NANS. “We emphatically reiterate that the struggle, rights and sweats of the Nigerian students in Ogun State is not for sale to any politician and we shall continue to vehemently resist every attempt to sabotage our mission to emancipate the Nigerian Students in the Gateway state,” he said. NANS called on security agents in the state to call the lawmaker and others involved to order. “They should be held responsible for any break down of law and order resulting from their interference,” he said. Efforts to get the reaction of Hon. Adekoya were unsuccessful as he did not answer repeated calls to his phone. Also, a message to his line is yet to be replied hours after it was sent to him.