Chuks Ibegbu, a former spokesman of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has called on President Buhari-led federal government to summon leaders of all agitating groups and discuss with them on how to unite the nation. Ibegbu, who spoke during an interview with DAILY POST on Thursday, also asked the government to give express order to Fulani herders to stop terrorising innocent Nigerians. He lamented the killing of innocent Nigerians by herdsmen and warned that such could lead to a civil war. Ibegbu asked Igbo leaders to summon a security summit immediately to address the current security challenges in the South South and the Southeast zones. The immediate past Deputy National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo lamented the growing looting by government officials and warned that there may be a people’s revolution against corruption and the looting of the common wealth. Ibegbu also criticized the federal government for blaming the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB, for the jailbreak and attack on Nigeria Correctional Centre as well as the Police formations at Owerri, the Imo State capital. His words, “In as much as we are not speaking for the group or defending them, we assert that such conclusion is not only premature but untenable. “We expect a discreet investigation first before any such conclusion. The unknown gunmen could have come from anywhere. “They could even be Boko Haram or killer Fulani herdsmen. Mr President was too hasty and we call on him to retract that insinuation. “We also feel traumatized in the recent announcement of the new IGP by Mr President. It’s now obvious he does not consider the sensibilities and peculiarities of all sections of Nigeria. “This is not the first, second, third or last. Never in Nigeria history have we seen this kind of nepotism”. DAILY POST reported that the Imo State Police command headquarters and the headquarters of the Nigeria Correctional Services (NCS) in Owerri were bombed on Monday. Force spokesman, Frank Mba, revealed that the attackers used sophisticated weapons such as General Purpose Machine Guns (GPMGs), Sub-Machine Guns (SMGs), AK49 rifles, Rocket Propelled Grenades (RPGs), and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). He said the attackers attempt to gain access to the Police armoury at the headquarters was resisted by the police operatives on duty.