Benjamin Kalu, the spokesperson for the House of Representatives and member representing Bende federal constituency of Abia State, has condemned the senseless attacks on the Police station in Uzuakoli and as well as other security formations across the south-east region by unknown hoodlums. DAILY POST had reported that unknown gunmen on Monday morning razed a police station in Uzuakoli, Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. The invasion it was gathered occurred in the early hours of Monday. Reacting, Rep Benjamin Kalu, in a press statement, said he was saddened that while the South-East was still recovering and rebuilding from the destructions of the civil war, certain anarchists have ventured to destroy the gains made through sweat, blood and tears. “This is a way of reminding us of the previous pains of the war. We yearn for the sounds of unity that will activate prosperity and progress and not the sounds of guns that refreshes the memory of our pains”. The federal lawmaker called on all community leaders and his constituents to rise and support the efforts of security agencies in maintaining peace in the constituency and state. “This is also the time for the vigilante groups to be supported in every possible way to defend our territories. The role of the youths of Bende in times like this cannot be overemphasized, I urge them to be vigilant to defend our land from these barbarians. “Like I have always pointed out, it is time for security agencies to deploy the use of intelligence to lift the masks of these so-called “unknown gunmen”. Rep Kalu called on Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, as the Chief Security Officer of the state, to take more definite steps to protect the citizens of Abia State while calling on the Inspector General of Police and the heads of all security agencies to react swiftly to the signs springing up in the South East. “It is better to quench the fire now that it is still a spark, as a flame will pose a greater challenge. “I assure ndi Bende that I will prevail upon the National Assembly and its Security Committees to work expediently, further to its mandate of assisting the security agencies in addressing these ugly security situations in the country. “A peaceful society is to the benefit of everyone and I urge everyone peddling violence to stop now or face the consequences”.