The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested a number of suspected kidnappers, cattle rustlers, armed robbers, among others and recovered arms, ammunition as well as animals, including cattle, sheep and others. This was announced on Friday by the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Sylvester Alabi at a press briefing. CP Alabi informed that a fleeing 60-year-old suspected kidnapper, Bello Abubakar, who fled from Safana in Katsina State to his son’s house after participating in the murder of one Murnai Abubakar and kidnapping his wife, Hauwa Murnai, was arrested at Guggu village in Toro Local Government Area of the state. His arrest, according to the police boss, followed a complaint by one Alhaji Shehu Abubakar and one Samaila Ibrahim, aged 42 years, of Mangal security, Runka village, Safana LGA of Katsina State at Toro Division that a nephew, one Sale Bello aged 30 years, of Sum, a Fulani settlement in Guggu village via Nabordo, Toro LGA was arrested for killing his brother, Murnai Abubakar (now deceased) and kidnapping his wife Hauwa Murnai aged 35 years some two months ago in Safana LGA of Katsina State.  According to him, “On Saturday, 28 March, 2021 at about 0800hrs, one Alhaji Shehu Abubakar aged 56yrs of Lara village via Nabordo, Toro LGA and one Samaila Ibrahim aged 42yrs of Mangal security, Runka village, Safana LGA of Katsina State reported at Toro Division that a nephew, one Sale Bello aged 30yrs of Sum, a Fulani settlement in Guggu village via Nabordo, Toro LGA was arrested for killing his brother, Murnai Abubakar (now deceased) and kidnapping his wife Hauwa Murnai aged 35 yrs some two months ago in Safana LGA of Katsina State. “One of the suspects, Abdullahi Tukur who was arrested, indicted both Sale and his father, Bello Abubakar aged 60 years, of the crime and that the said Bello recently absconded from Safana in Katsina and relocated to his son’s house after committing the heinous crime. “On receipt of the report, the Area Commander Dutsinma, Katsina State was contacted and he confirmed the allegation. Our men swung into action and traced the suspects to Guggu village where they were arrested.” The police boss informed that a notorious cattle rustler, one Abdullahi Tukur (25) of Baruwa Safana LGA of Katsina State was discovered taking refuge in Guggu forest and arrested, adding that they had confessed to the crime.  CP Alabi revealed that three suspects, Adamu Abubakar; Sagir Yusuf; Idris Mohammed, were arrested on 31st March, 2021 at Liman Katagum with two Red coloured Boxer motorcycles. “It was gathered that sometimes last year around the 28/12/2020 at about 0300hrs, the above mentioned names armed themselves with Dane guns, machetes and sticks and attacked the following persons: Abubakar Ali; Buba Ali and Yahaya Ali, all of Alkaleri, Bauchi State. “They tied their victims up and took them to an unknown destination for about three (3) days, demanding a ransom of four million naira (N4,000,000) in addition to converting two hundred and thirty (230) cows of the victims to their personnel use. During interrogation, all suspects confessed to the crime,” Alabi said. He informed that exhibits recovered from them include, 230 cows; 39 sheep; five donkeys and one dog, adding that, “all exhibits recovered from the suspects were released to the owners after proper and announcing identification.” The Commissioner of Police informed that police operatives in collaboration with personnel of Danga Security had an encounter with bandits on 30th March, 2021 while on patrol along Riga forest Base 1 at Duguri Gwana area of Alkaleri Local Government Area of the state. According to him, the joint patrol team ran into an assembly of some dangerous armed bandits and Kidnappers, notoriously known for terrorizing the Duguri area. “This encounter resulted in a heavy gun battle between our men and the criminals which led to the killing of two of the unknown armed bandits, while others escaped with bullet wounds,” Alabi said. “Consequently, an AK-47 rifle with breach No.357843, a locally made single barrel gun, sixteen (16) live ammunition of 7.62mm calibre, two cutlasses and a knife were part of the exhibits recovered from the scene. “Other items recovered from the suspects are two motorcycles with registration NO. TRN 762 QP and KEY 322 QL, large number of Bows and Arrows, one (1) Techno handset and substantial quantity of a certain substance suspected to be cannabis.” CP Alabi declared that the police would relentlessly continue to smoke out criminal elements with consistent effort and assured that personnel of the command would continuously maintain law and order in the state.