The Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, has insisted that in order to reduce the rate of death and injuries on the highways, there is a need on the part of the motoring public to exercise patience whenever they are driving. It also advised all road users, whether drivers or motorcyclists to at all times comply with the prescribed speed limit as a way of ensuring safety on the road. The Osun Sector Commander, Kudirat Ibrahim gave the advice in a chat with DAILY POST on the heels of the accidents that occurred on the Gbongan-Ibadan road, Osogbo last week. Mrs. Ibrahim, while advocating for the application of ‘common sense’ speed limit when driving urged road users to always slow down considerably whenever they are approaching a town, market or U-turn because other road users and pedestrians also avail themselves of the roads. “Since there are a lot of turns on the roads, there is the need to slow down on approach as this would also contribute in averting road traffic accidents and car crashes. “Most of these crashes are caused by excessive speeding and wrongful overtaking on the part of motorists. “The motoring public needs to work with the FRSC, federal and state governments to ensure that they don’t harm other people in the course of moving from one place to the other.” While calling on the public to accept the fact that road safety is everybody’s business, the Osun FRSC Sector Commander explained that the Commission has personnel in township roads controlling traffic. “We also go to the markets to discourage people from parking their cars on the road, but after we depart, they will disregard our directives.” She also maintained that the road users ought to take personal responsibility because excessive speeding by vehicles may cause more harm to the people. “There is no point in carrying out continuous reminders and the commission cannot do route lining from Gbongan to Osogbo. We are always sensitising on the need to reduce their speed limit and slow down to soothe the conditions of the roads because there are junctions and markets located on this stretch of road from Gbongan to Osogbo. DAILY POST had reported last week accidents that occurred on the Gbongan-Ibadan road at Ogo-Oluwa where a woman roasting plantain was killed by the roadside and at Owode-Ede, where a man was seriously injured by an 18 seater bus. Also, DAILY POST reported another incident where a Nissan Primera car heading towards Olaiya Junction was consumed totally by fire and also on Easter Monday, a near fatal accident involving an 18 seater bus was averted at Heritage Junction on the Gbongan-Ibadan road.