Islamic rights group, Muslims Rights Concern, MURIC, has come to the defence of the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Ibrahim Isa Ali Pantami. Reports emerged at the weekend that Pantami had been placed on the watchlist of the United States of America over alleged link with the leadership of terrorist group operating in the North East, Boko Haram. His accusers also claimed that the minister was a close confidant of the late Mohammed Yusuf, the late leader of the dreaded terrorist group that has done unimaginable destruction in the region. According to the report, Pantami had ties with Abu Quata­da al Falasimi and other Al-Qaeda leaders whom he revered and spoke highly of. The Minister had since dismissed the report, describing it as fake, adding that he has been involved in various debates that preached against insurgency which had, in turn, endangered his life. However, MURIC, in a statement signed by its director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, described the report as fake news. “It is fake news. It is a lie from the pit of jahannam. It is a product of malice, envy and evil desire concocted in the laboratory of the notorious ‘pull him down’ (PhD) syndrome. It exists only in the imagination of the authors of the evil plan. It will not stand the test of authenticity. “Pantami is an honest, diligent and uncommon Islamic scholar whose ability to combine his discipline with digital expertise has raised him above his peers and made him an indispensable asset to this country. It is only people with diseased minds who do not want progress for Nigeria that can make such malicious yet false allegation against him. Therefore, those who claim that Pantami ‘spoke glowingly’ of associates of terrorist leaders are apostles of Lucifer and pathological liars. “In fact, Dr. Pantami removed the rug from under the feet of Yusuf, the erstwhile leader of Boko Haram. This he did in several debates during his days as a university lecturer and those videotapes are still available for all to watch,” the statement read in part.