Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday fixed Saturday, February 18, 2023 for Nigeria’s general elections. Chairman of the commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, while making the announcement, said the full timetable would be out soon. 2. The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, described the killing of a top commander of the Eastern Security Network, ESN, Ikonso Don as a disaster. This was contained in a statement by the Secretary-General of the organization, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro. 3. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, on Wednesday, said that Nigeria cannot afford another civil war because it will not augur well for the country. Osinbajo stated this yesterday in Abuja. 4. The Senate on Wednesday summoned the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed, and Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, to appear before it next Tuesday over the alleged secret withdrawal of N7.5 billion from the nation’s treasury. 5. The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Hon. Justice Salisu Abdullahi, as the Chief Judge, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Abuja. This followed a report from the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. 6. The Police Command in Benue State has said it arrested three bandits and recovered dangerous weapons in Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Anene confirmed the arrest. 7.The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the National Poverty Reduction with Growth Strategy’ (NPRGS), which was put together by the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC). Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina stated this on Wednesday. 8. The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has lamented the non-passage of the Electoral Act (amendment) Bill by the National Assembly less than two years to the 2023 elections. The INEC boss made the lamentation in Abuja on Wednesday. 9. Ebonyi State Government, yesterday, formally unveiled the state chapter of the South East joint security outfit, EbubeAgu. Chairman of the South East Governors’ Forum, David Umahi, unveiled the outfit after a security council meeting at the new Government House in Abakaliki. 10. The Federal Government has resolved to partner with the Chinese Government in addressing security challenges facing the country. Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammad Dingyadi, made this known yesterday.