An expert in Political Sociology and Conflict Management, Dr John Kolawole, has described the administration of Gboyega Oyetola, as the weakest in the history of the state, calling on critical stakeholders to wage in and save the situation. He argued that various developments around the state in the last two years have exposed Governor Oyetola as weakling with half baked professionals and politicians around him. Kolawole made this known in a statement tagged: ‘Osun in disarray; an urgent call for action’ the copy which was made available to newsmen in Osogbo, the state capital on Monday. The expert alleged that the level of ineptitude and nonchalant disposition in the cabinet of Governor Oyetola have reversed many achievements previously recorded by past administrations in the state. He said, “This Oyetola is obviously bereft of ideas about governance and impeccable administrative strategy, to make matter worst, he further displayed naivety by surrounding himself with people with lesser cognitive strength and professional savvy. “This Governor’s pattern of appointment is directly proportional to his intelligence quotient. How could a man of that social status surrounded himself with mediocre out of illogical sentiment, thereby putting the state into serious jeorpardy. “You are approving an appointment of a wife as a Personal Assistant to her husband who is an Attorney General of the state. This is indeed very strange and unbelievable. “The security of the state is in unprecedentedly sorry state, as the state is presently in Hobessian state of nature, where life is short, poor and nasty. “Unlike previous administrations, Oyetola appointed his like as Special Adviser on Security, who remains inertia when cultists and kidnappers have taken over the state, killing and maiming at will. “Look at how Governor Seyi Makinde deceived the Governor and the two elements he appointed as SA and Commissioner in charge of education, to get the sole ownership of LAUTECH and reneged the so-called agreements they ignorantly signed. “Critical stakeholders in the Osun project must quickly come to the rescue of the state and salvage the state from bigger crisis”. Kolawole, further faulted the government’s decision to construct bridge at Ola-iya junction, describing it as misplaced priority, adding that the traffic evaluation of the area does not suggest urgent intervention of that nature. He explained that by the experts’ positions on the axis, the area with urgent intervention is Oke-fia area of the metropolis. “I read the watery narrative put forward by the Commissioner for Information, one Funke Egbemode, titled: ‘Should We Spill More Blood’ to justify the necessity for the construction of the bridge and wept for the state, we have never had it so bad like this. I couldn’t fathom the state of mind of the Governor at the point he was considering the appointment of Mrs Egbemode. “The other day, Mr Oyetola was attacked by hoodlums during Endsars protest, the next thing I would see was his Spokesman, Ismail Omipidan, speakng Hausa to explain what happened on that day; it was bizarre at it appeared senseless. “Those are the characters this Governor is parading in Osun. Oyetola seriously needs help”, he said .