Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, said that the former governor of Imo State and a serving senator, Rochas Okorocha, has been arrested. Spokesman of the Commission, Wilson Uwujaren, confirmed that the former governor was picked up in Abuja. 2. The Federal Government has invited the striking leadership of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) to two separate meetings. The first holds on Wednesday while the second is scheduled for Thursday. 3. Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday, urged the South East people to ignore the newly established security outfit by the five governors, insisting the Eastern Security Network (ESN) is the duly formed outfit for the zone. Spokesman of the group, Emma Powerful stated this in a statement on Tuesday. 4. United States federal health agencies, yesterday, recommended pausing the use of Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 vaccine for at least a few days after six women under age 50 developed rare blood clots after receiving the shot, dealing a fresh setback to efforts to tackle the pandemic. 5. The Army said it has begun to engage some of its retirees to assist in tackling rising insecurity in the country. Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, said this, yesterday when he declared open the First Quarter 2021 Veterans Affairs Directorate Workshop in Port Harcourt. 6. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, yesterday said that Nigeria’s victory in its battle against insecurity is around the corner. Pastor Adeboye made this known when he paid a courtesy call on Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El Rufai at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House on Tuesday. 7. The Leadership of the House of Representatives is set to invite the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, over the industrial action by the Nigerian resident doctors. Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila made this known yesterday. 8. Campaign posters of a former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, were sighted in conspicuous areas of Abuja on Tuesday, fuelling speculations that he might soon declare his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election. 9. Governors on Tuesday rejected the Executive Order by President Muhammadu Buhari for the implementation of financial autonomy for state Legislature and Judiciary. Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong spoke with reporters in Abuja on behalf of the forum. 10. The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has reintroduced the park-and-pay policy in the city centre, seven years after public outcry forced authorities to halt the scheme. Acting Secretary, FCT Transportation Secretariat, Usman Yahaya made this known while briefing journalists on Tuesday in Abuja.