The dream of the Taraba State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to coast to victory in 2023, has no doubt began to take different dimension as some aggrieved members of the party are observed to have concluded plans to pitch tent with the All Progressives Congress (APC). DAILY POST reports that this is being necessitated by the inability of the leadership of the party at both the state and the federal levels to resolve the difference which have continued to tear members of the party apart. Some notable members of the party, especially the aggrieved ones, were observed to have registered their membership with the APC in the just concluded revalidation exercise carried out in the State. APC Caretaker Chairman, Barrister El-Sudi Tukur Ibrahim, agreed that some aggrieved members of the PDP “have approached us.” The members who he said have signified their interests to join forces with the APC in order to frustrate PDP from actualizing its dreams come next general elections, according to him “have as well registered and obtained our membership cards.” Though not willing to make the name of such PDP members who are at the verge of dumping their party public, APC, as made known by him, is fashioning out plans to “officially receive them.” “For now, making their name public is not necessary. But I am confidently telling you, that several members of the PDP who are not pleased with the way and manner they are being treated by the party, are now warming up to decamp en-mass to APC here in Taraba State,” he said. Some of the aggrieved members blamed their anger of the absence of “internal democracy ” in the PDP. The leadership of the APC vowed to extend the much needed olive branch to the aggrieved members whom they said have concluded plans to “join our party.” The APC caretaker chairman, in his word said “what is presently happening in PDP here in our state, is a great blessing to our dear party. So, we are leaving no stone unturned to take advantage of their disputes.” Aware of the development, a chieftain of the party who confided on DAILY POST, said “we are very much aware of the ongoing plans by some of our members to defect to the APC.” Stressing that the party leadership is visiting the nooks and crannies of the State to discourage them from decamping, he, however, apportioned blames on the leadership of the party at the State and the national level for not deeming it fit to wade into the internal wranglings in the party. DAILY POST reports that the PDP has been piloting the affairs of the State, a situation that has never gone down well with the opposition political parties.