The Chairman of the Cross River State House of Assembly Committee on Judiciary, Public Petition, Public Service Matters and Conflict Resolution, Hon Efa Nyong Esua has condemned the action of various State Governors who refused to respect Executive Order 10. The Executive Order 10 signed by President Mohammed Buhari authorised the implementation of financial autonomy to the Judiciary and the Legislature and directed State Governors to respect and implement it but this has not been done, hence the strike action by judiciary and House of Assembly workers. Hon Efa Nyong Esua while speaking with DAILY POST via phone condemned the action of the Governors, describing it as a threat to democracy, “It’s a threat to democracy; the action of the Governors is a threat to democracy and condemnable.” He explained that the workers in the State House of Assembly are on strike over non-granting of autonomy but noted, “it is a very sad development, it’s a total disobedience to the constitution. “The governors swore to uphold the constitution but because of financial gains, they reneged, they have disappointed us and it was because of the autonomy that the constitution was amended to grant that financial autonomy to state houses of assembly and judiciary. “The strike affected the House and we cannot have any sitting, no deliberation of any kind, it affected the assembly, and I support them to hold what is right because without that, there will be no headway. “I don’t know why the governors are scared. I am disappointed and my disappointment is even with those who are loyal to the governors on this and who supported this illegal act, they are sycophants. “I don’t understand. The people are suffering, cases that are in courts cannot be heard, people are languishing in police cell nationwide because they cannot be charged to courts,” he pointed out. Hon Esua advised the governors to obey the constitution which they swore to uphold, “Why do they want to be in charge of everything including the House of Assembly and the Judiciary, and these are different arms of government. And why must they take control. “They thought that granting financial autonomy to these people (Judiciary and Legislature) is going to be a threat to them. It’s not, and my advice to them is that they should obey and respect the constitution which they swore to uphold,” he stated.