The English Premier League and the UEFA have threatened to ban any club among the top six on the table that takes part in the European Super League. The threat was contained in a press released jointly signed by the two governing bodies where they condemned plans for European Super League Twelve clubs from England, Spain and Italy have been in talks to join a new league format which would effectively bring an end to the UEFA Champions League. The EPL’s ‘big six’ clubs: Man City, Man United, Liverpool, Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham, are understood to be among those clubs. The new league format would operate without qualification or relegation. The English Football Association, the Royal Spanish Football Federation (RFEF), La Liga, the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) and Lega Serie A are other signatories of the statement. They strongly hit back at what they described as ‘cynical project’, warning of heavy sanctions for those involved. The statement read: “UEFA, the English Football Association and the Premier League, the Royal Spanish Football Federation (RFEF) and LaLiga, and the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) and Lega Serie A have learned that a few English, Spanish and Italian clubs may be planning to announce their creation of a closed, so-called Super League. “If this were to happen, we wish to reiterate that we – UEFA, the English FA, RFEF, FIGC, the Premier League, LaLiga, Lega Serie A, but also FIFA and all our member associations – will remain united in our efforts to stop this cynical project, a project that is founded on the self-interest of a few clubs at a time when society needs solidarity more than ever. “We will consider all measures available to us, at all levels, both judicial and sporting in order to prevent this happening. Football is based on open competitions and sporting merit; it cannot be any other way. “As previously announced by FIFA and the six Federations, the clubs concerned will be banned from playing in any other competition at domestic, European or world level, and their players could be denied the opportunity to represent their national teams.” The 2020/21 seasons of UEFA Champions League and the Europa League are currently at the semi-finals stage. Real Madrid, Manchester City, Paris Saint-Germain and Chelsea are the teams that made it to the semi-finals. Real Madrid will face Chelsea, while Manchester City and PSG will battle for a place in the final.