Members of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, Ilorin branch, in the Kwara State capital, on Wednesday, staged a peaceful protest in support of the clamour for financial autonomy for the judiciary in the state. DAILY POST recalls that members of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria, JUSUN, are currently on strike to press for financial autonomy for the judiciary, with law courts still under lock and key in the state. The legal practitioners, matched to the Government House, on Ahmadu Bello Way, Ilorin carrying placards with different inscriptions such as ” court judgement on financial autonomy must be complied with; independence of the judiciary is sacrosanct; Otoge governors’ obey and respect the law and stop pocketing the judiciary” among others. Abdulganiyu Bello, Chairman, Ilorin NBA branch, who led his members on the peaceful demonstration, said ” We are here in compliance with the directive of the national secretariat as given by the National President, Mr Olumide Akpata, on the need for the government to give financial autonomy for our judiciary. “That is why we are here to call on the governor to obey the rule of law. “It is stated in our constitution, if you look at Section 121, it says that all funding shall be handed over to the heads of the judiciary in various states. “So we want to call on the governors to obey the rule of law. If the rule of law is obeyed, democracy will strive well. That is why we are here to register our support to JUSUN,” Bello declared. He frowned at the attitude of governors to the financial autonomy for the judiciary in their various states. Bello, lamented that the JUSUN strike had affected court proceedings as courts remain closed to the people, thereby disallowing them from asserting their rights. The branch chairman said that the 2014 court verdict had settled the controversy over the financial autonomy for the judiciary, adding that democracy will thrive with strict adherence to the rule of law. On his own part, a former spokesman of the branch, Sunkanmi Olorunnisola, cautioned that Nigeria’s democracy would be in danger if the judiciary is not financially independent. JUSUN: Write your name on sands of history - NBA, JUSUN tell Gov Udom Fayemi calls for dialogue with stakeholders to end judiciary workers' strike JUSUN, PASAN shut down Taraba over financial autonomy