Security was beefed up on Monday, 12th April, 2021 as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) prepares for its zonal congress to usher in executives that will handle the affairs of the party in the South West zone ahead of the 2023 presidential election. Very early on Monday during a visit to the Women and Children Development Initiative Foundation (WOCDIF) Centre, venue of the congress, DAILY POST observed that personnel of the Department of State Security (DSS), Nigeria Police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) were conducting stop and search to forestall a break-down of law and order. The general atmosphere in Osogbo remained peaceful and business activities went on as usual. DAILY POST had reported that the venue for the zonal congress was shifted from Ibadan, Oyo State to Osogbo, Osun State due to the disagreement between former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose who is supporting Dr. Eddy Olafeso, the former zonal chairman of the party and Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State who is supporting Taofeek Arapaja, a former deputy governor of Oyo State. Dr. Eddy Olafeso is re-contesting for the position of zonal chairman of the party while Taofeek Arapaja is another candidate for the same position. Meanwhile, PDP had yesterday announced the names for the electoral congress committee and appeal panel. According to the announcement obtained by DAILY POST, the electoral congress committee are Gov. Samuel Ortom -Chairman, while other members are Senator Sandy Onor, Ogun Ofome Anthony, Ireruke Edward Otemabore, and Secretary is Senator Samuel Anyanwu. The electoral appeal panel members are Chief Okey Ezenwa – Chairman,  Mr Clement Okarejie, member and Rolland Najomoh, Secretary. A total number of 743 delegates are expected at the PDP South West Zonal Congress with Oyo State having 171 delegates followed by Osun with 130 delegates and Ekiti with 115 delegates. Others are Ogu State with 114 delegates, Ondo 112 delegates and Lagos having the least with 101 delegates and a total number of 22 offices will be contested for during the congress. The general feeling among party delegates is that this zonal congress is seen as the final showdown between former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose and Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State.