A pan Niger Delta group, known as the Movement for the Survival of Izon Ethnic Nationality in Niger Delta (MOSIEND), has told the people of the region to hold the Minister of state for petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, and the current Minister for transportation, Rt Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, and other appointees from the region, responsible over what they described as “deteriorating development situation in the region.” The group added that the region has suffered developmental standstill since the Buhari administration took over in 2015. They spoke through a statement sent to DAILY POST, through MOSIEND’s National Mobilization Officer, Alhaji Abubaka Amaigo Brown, after a consultative meeting with ethnic youths leaders from Rivers State and MOSIEND Executives from the Eastern Zone, in preparation of a proposed Niger Delta Ethnic communities youth leaders conference. The group noted that it is highly regrettable that 6 years into the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, none of the government appointees from the region had use goodwill to initiate and accomplish any reasonable project. The statement reads “Our kinsmen (Ministers / Appointees) who are privileged to be at the corridors of power under Buhari’s government had failed us, we are disappointed by their insensitivity to the flight of the region, they’re definitely not representing the interest and people of the region. “How many of the serving Ministers have approached Mr President to suggest ways and means of implementing the 16 point agenda presented to the President since 2016 by PANDEF and Traditional Rulers in the region, what extra efforts have they invested towards addressing some of the teething issues plaguing the socio economic and developmental advancement of the region. “Let’s be frank with ourselves, the increasing insecurity, unemployment, disquiet and disaffection in the region can be as a result of lack of synergy, unity of purpose and zero vision by our people in the Federal Executive Council. “It is unfortunate that Niger Delta Ministers under Buhari Government are not good politicians, and that’s why their supporters can defect in droves, how come their ardent supporters are so hungry and looking ragtag. Meanwhile, their counterparts from other regions, especially in the North and West have had several joint conferences, summits and strategic engagement across party divides to collectively address their situations, ours are positioned in a dagger drawn posture “One begin’s to wonder whether it is the same crop of Ministers, who back then as Governors, worked very hard and became the pride of the region due to their high level of performance amongst their fellow Governors! So what’s the reason for the sudden withdrawal tendencies and wallowing in inertia. Some of them were united against ex-President Jonathan’s 2nd term bid, but fell apart immediately they accomplished their mission. “Nearly two years to the expiration of this government, it is beginning to tell on us that we are at the receiving end. Nothing is working, nothing tangible has been achieved from Ministry of Transportation, Petroleum, Niger Delta, NDDC, Amnesty etc. “MOSIEND is calling on political actors in the region to try and sheath their sword! Money, Power and fame are all vanity! This PEPPER THEM disposition and deep hatred for the people and development of the region should be jettisoned at all cost, power is transient. “The Niger Delta Region is in dire need of unity, peace and development. MOSIEND is appealing to our Honourable Ministers, Governors and appointees in power to let go of ego and pity sentiment, close ranks, compare notes and start laying the foundation for industrialization outside oil and gas in the region.”