The leader of INRI evangelical spiritual church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has lambasted the senior assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu over his position on allegations linking the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami to terrorists. Recall that Shehu had said Pantami was young when he made some statements that encouraged terrorism and that he has changed his orientation now. Also, the presidential aide had compared Pantami’s situation to that of former Minister, Kemi Adeosun who resigned due to some discrepancies in her NYSC certificate. According to Shehu, Kemi Adeosun’s case was a more serious issue than Isa Pantami’s. But reacting to this in a statement to DAILY POST on Sunday, Ayodele said Garba Shehu was one of the people misleading the government and that he needs to think deeply before making comments. “Garba Shehu is one of the people misleading Buhari’s government. I am not sure he thinks very deeply before commenting on issues. “Kemi Adeosun’s case doesn’t even warrant resignation because it was not totally her fault, but she willingly resigned because she is a woman of integrity, honour and note when she discovered that her certificates are not in order. “But what Pantami has done is related to terrorism. It involves terrorist groups and it’s shameful. “He doesn’t even need to say anything, the first thing is to resign before anything if he is an honourable person. “This position they are dragging is just for the time being, why stain yourself forever for a post that won’t exceed eight years? “Garba Shehu also needs to be investigated for supporting Isa Pantami in such a way. “It’s a disgrace to Nigeria, this will cause chaos, conspiracy in his government, why must he still be there, on what account? Are they serving the nation or their pocket? “Someone who is serving the nation will leave with honour and not wait till anyone to molest him because as it is now, he has been molested by this act. This also berates our DSS, Senators who did screening for him.’’ The Kaduna State Government confirmed on Friday that three of the abducted Greenfield University students were shot dead by bandits. The government said the remains of the students were found on Friday, in Kwanan Bature village, a location close to the university. 