Some Nigerians have reacted to the deadline extension for linking of Sim cards to National Identification Number, NIN. Recall that the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, had disclosed the deadline extension from May 6 to April 6. Pantami had said the deadline extension was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. However, a cross-section of Nigerians at a registration centre in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. has expressed divergent views on the situation. While some supported the deadline extension of the Sim-NIN registration, others faulted the entire process. Some residents said the government should lay more emphasis on the employment and welfare of Nigerians instead of focusing on Sim-NIN registration. Terna Msuughter said a respondent said “Extending the NIN-Sim registration is a welcomed development as it would avail us that have not been able to complete the process the opportunity to do so.” “The time frame is, however, short, it should have been extended longer than the 6th of May” In his statement, Tevershima Akaer said “This process is just frustrating, why would they even think of linking NIN to Sims, is that the good roads, employment, good health systems Nigerians needs? “You come here, queue up from morning till night under this harsh weather and sometimes you can’t complete the process. The federal government should consider cancelling this process.” John Chia said: “Government should stop forcing Nigerians to link their Sim to NIN, they should rather make laws that would improve the quality of life. Nigerians are suffering, there is no food, everything so expensive, no job and all they are concern about is Sim-NIN registration. Poor people who are supposed to be looking for things to eat would come here daily to queue up for this registration process and still can’t complete it sometimes.” Ehi Ene, however, commended the Federal Government for such a directive, stressing that it was for the greater good of Nigerians. “Some people seem to be angry with this process but I think it is for the greater good of Nigerians. What I think the government should do is continue to enlighten Nigerians on the need for NIN and not just extending the registration process. “Even if the process runs till the end of the year, some Nigerians won’t still be able to register due to their time or schedule,” Ene said.