The high cost of food and the intense heatwave has made the 2021 Ramadan fast most difficult according to Zamfara residents. The rise in temperature since the beginning of Ramadan implies that
residents now crave more cold water than usual, leading to the high demand for cold water. However, the epileptic power supply in the state now means that cold water is now an essential but scarce commodity. Now the situation has led to a boom in the sale of ice blocks resulting in a hike of prices by over 75 percent compared to the prices before the Ramada. In the Tudun Wada area of Gusau, a sachet of ice blocks is now sold for N50 as against N15. Many housewives have now joined the bandwagon of ice block sellers jostling to put food on their tables as the hardship continues to bite even harder. Chris Iroh a cold room operator in Tudun Wada said he has been enjoying the patronage of residents and that it is getting very high considering the hot weather and the Ramadan fast. “How I wish that Ramadan would continue because the business now is very booming,” he said. Mr. Iron explained that he is selling one sachet of water for N40 while the women would sell for N50, saying he increased the price because of the high cost of petrol in the country. ”I use fuel to power the cold room for the ice blocks. You know that if one wholly depends on NEPA, he or she can not do his or her business. No serious business person can expect light every day” When interviewed, some of the traders confirmed that the business is very lucrative, saying that they always come out to the main roads by 5 o’clock to wait because the Muslims would be rushing home to break their fast and they need ice blocks for their families. “In fact, the business is very profitable since the Ramadan is around but after the Ramadan, we will look for another business” One Mrs Victoria told DAILY POST that she used to make more than N1,000 per day because of the rush to purchase the ice block, saying that some people buy more than N200 ice blocks for their families, so adding up everything you can see that the business is a booming one.