The Oyo State Police Command on Thursday said that it has arrested some suspected car snatchers, armed robbers and kidnappers who have been terrorising some members of the public in the state. Commisioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko made this disclosure while parading some of the suspects in Ibadan. Onadeko added that the suspects were arrested at different locations in the state. Among those who were arrested is an armed robbery gang, arrested in Ibadan, the State capital. Onadeko said that the armed robbery specializes in snatching exotic cars from unsuspected owners at gun point in Ibadan and neighbouring States. “On 17th April, 2021 at about 1930hrs, an armed Robbery syndicate which specializes in snatching exotic cars from unsuspected owners at gun point in Ibadan and neighbouring States were apprehended at Bodija Area of Ibadan. They had in their possession a Black Ford edge vehicle with Reg. No. Lagos APP 771 CV and a blue Toyota Corolla car with Reg. No. AKD 642 CM. also found in their possession is a Barretta Pistol. “Suspects: 1. Echefuna Ebubechukwu, Temisan Barber. EXHIBITS: 1. Black Ford Edge SUV with Reg. No. Lagos APP 771 CV. Blue Toyota Corolla 03/04 with Reg. No. AKD 642 CM.” She added that a class teacher was also arrested for having canal knowledge of some of his students. The class teacher, according to her was arrested in Ibadan. “Today 22/04/2012 at about 1100hrs one “Olawuyi Ebenezer” ‘m’ 30 yrs old teacher in Rabbul-ilsan Nursery & Primary school, Abebi, Mokola Ibadan was arrested for repeatedly having undue carnal knowledge of a 12 yrs pupil name withheld. Further investigations revealed that the suspect had his way with the young victim on three different occasions.” Onadeko while speaking further maintained that an armed robbery, kidnapping syndicate responsible for strings of Robbery and kidnapping along Ayete, Igangan, Lanlate, Eruwa, Igboora, Tapa and environ have been apprehended. Onadeko said, “The trio confessed to be involved in the crime and their confessional statement is helping to immediately arrest other syndicate members still at large. “Suspects: Samuel Oga, Christian Abunka, Sheu Babangida. Exhibits: 1. One Red Boxer Bajaj motorcycle with Reg. No. GBE 035 UX, One Red Boxer Bajaj motorcycle with Reg. No. FST 651 QC, Five empty cartridges, Six Syringes, One broken cutlass and one Filer, One Speedometer, Fifty-four pieces of cows hidden, Two (2) 25 liters kegs containing about 15 liters Fuel, Thirteen (13) Cutlasses, One Hammer, Four pieces of dry meat, One bag of millet and two half bags of corn, One specially constructed weapon with Axe handle and Iron arrow.”