The Chairman, Southeast governors forum and Ebonyi Governor, David Umahi on Tuesday tasked herdsmen who allegedly vacated the state as a result of killings to delay their return to avert further war. Umahi also called on heads of security agencies and vigilante groups to mobilize and confront herdsmen who invaded the southeast zone or Ebonyi State in particular with AK 47 riffles. The governor said this while briefing journalists shortly after an enlarged state security council meeting in Abakaliki. He tasked stakeholders of the southeast zone to condemn the killings of police officers and razing of their stations by bandits and kidnappers. He noted that the problems facing the southeast zone are not herdsmen but bandits, kidnappers and dangerous hoodlums who operate under unauthorized groups. The governor in a related development confirmed the killings of two Ebonyi indigenes, who were allegedly murdered in a fresh land dispute that rocked Ezzillo and Iyionu communities in Ishielu local government area of the state. Umahi ordered the thirteen council chairmen of the state and vigilante groups to enforce the law of open grazing in the state. The chairman equally insisted that the killings of over twelve innocent persons in Umuogodoakpu community in Ohaukwu LGA of the state are perpetrated by the Agila community, Ado LGA of Benue state. He said “We are killing policemen, we are burning police station which means that South-East leaders should know that our problem is not just herdsmen. “We want to put it on record that there are no herdsmen in Ebonyi State. We didn’t ask them to leave. They left on their own, which means they were privy to the attacks on Ebonyi State”. “I have been begging the National leadership that with what is going on, that no State Governor is in control of bandits and because of the killings of the defenceless Ebonyi people, for the safety of them, they should not return now”. “There is high tension. We have sent text messages to Myetti Allah that Ebonyi State is under tension and would want to still stay until such a time, the state is safe, Umahi said.