Gunmen suspected to be bandits armed with deadly weapons have stormed Kangon Farun Mana and Yardoka villages in Magami district of Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State, killing over 40 people, mostly members of the outlawed Yansakai groups. According to one Aminu Magami, an eyewitness, who spoke to DAILY POST, the dreaded gunmen stormed the communities at the early hours of Wednesday and started unleashing terror on the villagers. Magami explained that most of the people who were killed were members of the outlawed Yansakai group who attempted to repel the attack by the bandits. “One of those killed by the bandits was a close friend of mine; we had discussion few hours before he was killed,” the source added. In another development, another set of bandits also seized Bayan Banki, Gobirawa and Biyabiki communities in Tsafe Local Government Area of the State where they killed one person in Gobirawa village and left two others wounded at Bayan Banki. According to the source, those killed and wounded were initially being targeted and penciled by the bandits, saying that they were members of the outlawed Yansakai groups that have been disturbing the bandits from free operation in the area. DAILY POST gathered that the incident occurred less than 24 hours after members of the outlawed Yansakai groups at Gidan Zuma repelled another attack by some suspected bandits and killed two of their members on Monday. Another eyewitness, who spoke to our correspondent said earlier before the Monday’s encounter, the bandits had attempted to cease the same Gidan Zuma but they were resisted by the members of the outlawed Yansakai during which the bandits lost five of their members. When contacted, the State Police Command said it actually received a distress call when the attack was on in Magami but could not respond and repel the attack due to lack of good roads in the area. According to the command’s spokesman, SP Mohammed Shehu, the location where the incident occurred does not have cellular network coverage making communication very difficult to the police operative for quick response. He added that “PMF 19 Contingent attached to Puff Adder ll that are based in Magami responded to the locations on foot with a view to preventing further attacks on the neighbouring communities and their response is being awaited to ascertain the level of damage done by the assailants”.