Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Northern Governors’ Forum, yesterday, told the Acting Inspector General (IG) of Police, Usman Baba, to take proactive measures in tackling insecurity in Nigeria. The Chairman of the forum, Simon Lalong stated this in a congratulatory message to the new IGP. 2. Former Minister of Information, Professor Jerry Gana and other top political leaders yesterday, formerly joined the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. The defection took place at the North Central Zonal Congress of the party in Makurdi, Benue State. 3. Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Northern States and Abuja chapter, yesterday, said that payment of ransom and granting of amnesty to kidnappers will not end banditry. The Executive Secretary, Christian Pilgrims Commission, Pastor Yakubu Pam, made the observation on Saturday. 4. The Federal Government yesterday asked the International Criminal Police Organisation to be on the alert and look out for the inmates who escaped in the recent jailbreaks in the country, including the most recent in Owerri, the Imo State capital. 5. The O’odua People’s Congress has attacked a former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Interior, Lt. Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (retd), for comparing it with Boko Haram. The group in a statement on Saturday by its Publicity Secretary, Yinka Oguntimehin, said Dambazau was known for unguarded utterances. 6. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing has set aside N1bn in its 2021 budget as consultancy fees to be paid to experts that would supervise its roads and bridge projects. This was revealed in a copy of the document obtained from the ministry. 7. Suspected gunmen on Saturday morning rained bullets on the car of a traditional ruler, Oba Adetutu Ajayi, the Elewu of Ewu-Ekiti in Ilejemeje Local Government Area of Ekiti State. The monarch who reportedly escaped death, sustained gunshot injuries. 8. The Nigerian Government on Saturday signed a Memorandum of Action (MoA) with striking National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) to end the ongoing action. Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige, confirmed this yesterday in Abuja. 9. The Chidi Ibeh-led Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Saturday, paid a sympathy visit to the Imo State Correctional Service Centre, which came under attack recently. He called for the immediate relocation of the Correctional Service centre to a new location. 10. An Unspecified number of women have been abducted by suspected members of the Boko Haram sect who attacked a community in Adamawa State. The insurgents also killed five people, destroyed houses and other property and made away with belongings of residents.