Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Nigerian military yesterday said it has eliminated top leaders of the Islamic State of the ISWAP insurgents and scores of fighters in Borno in a major offensive. Two commanders of the terror group, Amir Abu-Rabi and Mohamed Likita as well as dozens of others were reportedly killed. 2. Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, on Thursday, confirmed that the eight members of the RCCG who were kidnapped in Kaduna State have regained freedom. He made the confirmation via a tweet on his verified Twitter handle. 3. Asere community in Ese-Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State was yesterday thrown into turmoil following an attack on the riverine village by gunmen. The assailants who also appeared to be arsonists had in their numbers attacked the community and set ablaze 15 houses. 4. JAMB, yesterday, said it has put on hold the registration for the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) which was billed to commence Thursday. The announcement was contained in a statement by the Boards Head of Media and Protocol, Dr Fabian Benjamin. 5. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, on Thursday lamented that the current insecurity in the country poses a great danger to Nigeria’s unity. He stated this during a Town Hall meeting in Kaduna. 6. Following the discovery of an explosive device at Union Primary School at Afaraukwu, Umuahia, Abia State Government has ordered the temporary closure of the school. Commissioner for Information, John Okiyi-Kalu made the announcement in a statement, yesterday. 7. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday said Aisha Buhari’s spontaneity has redefined the role of the Office of the First Lady of Nigeria, describing her as an unusual occupier of the office. Osinbajo said this yesterday at the book presentation titled “Aisha Buhari: Being Different”. 8. The APC leaders from the North-Central geopolitical zone have pleaded with the national leadership of the ruling party to zone the presidential ticket to the southern part of the country. The convener, Dr Kassim Muhammad, stated this yesterday while addressing newsmen at the party’s secretariat. 9. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said he is currently taking “a short rest” in London, United Kingdom. According to a statement on Thursday by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, the President disclosed this in a letter he wrote to the King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, King Abdullah ll Bin Al-Hussein. 10. The Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) Governors Forum will meet in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, today, to review the state of the nation. Chairman of the forum, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto, is expected to chair the event.