Contrary to observations during the Valentine Day celebration in Osogbo, where residents ignored COVID-19 safety guidelines, the Easter celebration in Osogbo was different as regards the adherence to COVID-19 rules. Families seeking some Easter entertainment were seen trooping to recreation centres visited by DAILY POST. Our correspondent observed that residents who went out for celebrations wore their facemasks and obeyed laid down safety rules. The majority of the residents went about with their facemasks and were compelled to wash their hands with soap and running water before entering major recreational and relaxation spots. However, social distancing rules were not observed. Some of the fun seekers interviewed said despite the fun and excitement, they were mindful of the fact that COVID-19 was still real while some said the crisis was over as most organisations and even the government has relaxed the stringent measures earlier imposed to curb the pandemic. Mr. Seyi Ayokunle, a staff of an outlet in one of the malls located in Osogbo said before any customer was allowed into the mall, such a person must put on their facemask and use a hand sanitiser to clean their hands upon entering. He also said, most times, due to the nature of their business, they tend to have difficulty managing the crowds of customers that throng their shop. “When confronted by such, we appeal to some of them to stay outside while we attend to the ones inside. As the crowd inside reduces, we allow those outside to come in but they must put on their facemasks.” In the same vein, a business owner Ibrahim Ayodeji said most of the customers who patronise him always come wearing their facemasks adding that he doesn’t compel them to use hand sanitiser because he is sure they would have washed their hands at the entrance before entering. “I want to tell you that COVID-19 or not, the residents of Osogbo trooped out en masse to have fun and celebrate during this Easter celebration. “We had to stick strictly to the government directive on COVID-19 because we don’t want to be punished for disobedience. Some businesses have disobeyed and they have suffered the consequences. It is better to obey, force your customers to obey rather than face the government hammer.” He said. DAILY POST recalls that some previous festive holidays in the state were observed without adherence to COVID-19 safety guidelines. The state government had clamped down on some clubs and restaurant immediately after the Valentine Day celebration for flouting these safety guidelines. The state government had last week reminded residents of the need to strictly adhere to all COVID-19 safety guidelines ahead of the Easter celebration, which is perhaps the reason why many wore their face masks.