Kallywood actress, Nafisat Abdullahi takes T Pumpy Estates 40% Slash Promo Campaign to Nigeria Customs Service. Talented Kallywood actress, producer, director and professional photographer, Nafisat Abdullahi, on Tuesday stormed the Nigeria Customs Service headquarters with some staff of the Abuja-based real estate company, T Pumpy Concept Limited, Developers of T Pumpy Estates, Abuja.   Nafisat, who was received by the spokeman of Nigeria Customs Service DC Joseph Attah, said she was at the NCS headquarters to thank the management of the service for its fight against contraband products. The thespian said she was there to equally introduce the ongoing 40% Discount Promo the T Pumpy Estates is offering on all her lands.  She said, “Let me appreciate the Nigeria Customs Service for her relentless fight against fake and contraband products. “I must commend the leadership, officers and men of Nigeria Customs Service for their discipline and integrity in fighting against smuggling activities. “I am here to also introduce to you a company that has taken it upon herself to make sure every Nigerian is a house owner.  ‘‘Before I joined them as one of her brand ambassadors, I have heard so much about them and joining them cleared my doubt. “There is an ongoing promo where the company is slashing prices of her lands in Lugbe, Kpyegi/Jikwoyi, Kurudu, Guzape, Katampe, Wawa District, Kyami among others by 40% The interesting part is anybody who brings a buyer is entitled to 10 per cent commission while anyone who brings ten buyers is entitled to a plot of land within the nation’s capital.  “For example, in Lugbe, 300sqm tagged Diamond is going for N1.4m as against the N4m market value while the Platinum package, 600sqm is going for N2.7m as against the N4.5m market value. “In category two, Diamond is going for N1.2m while Platinum would be sold for N2.4m. “In Jikwoyi/Kpeyegyi, Diamond (300sqm) is going for N540 while the Platinum (600sqm) would go for N900,000.” Responding, DC Attah thanked the actress for coming.  He said “any company that is out to make sure there is roof over the head of Nigerians in a genuine way is a welcome development. “Nafisat Abdullahi is a role model to the Nigerian youth and girl child. Her choice as a brand ambassador is good move and I commend the company for this”. T. Pumpy Concept LTD, is one of the leading estate developers in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, with no fewer than 28 estates units spread across the Federal Capital City and is ensuring that thousands of Nigerians residents have access to houses of their own.  Visit them today at Corporate Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja. Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja. Suite 13-15, Spall Mall Plaza Kuchiako by Tipper Garage Kuje, Abuja  Follow them on all social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380