The Oyo State Police Command, on Tuesday, said that two suspects have been arrested in connection with various forms of criminal activities in Ibadan, the state capital. The command made this disclosure via a statement made available to DAILY POST by its Public Relations Officer, Mr. Adewale Osifeso. Osifeso said the suspects were arrested by a patrol team attached to Agodi Area Command. He maintained that the suspects included Sunday Victor and Samson Suarez. He added that they were arrested around Bodija Oju-Irin Area of Ibadan. The duo suspected to be cultists and members of an armed robbery syndicate has been on the radar of the Command for quite a while until their apprehension on 17th April, 2021, DAILY POST gathered. Osifeso while speaking further added that items found in possession of the suspects included one single barrel locally made pistol and a locally made Double barrel pistol. Other items were four live cartridges, an English axe, three mobile phones and a black mask. Osifeso said, “The Oyo State Police Command has recorded yet another success in the fight against criminality in the State as men on patrol duties attached to Agodi Area Command, on Intelligence-led Stop and Search Operations with men attached to 39PMF (on Special Intervention), nabbed one Sunday Victor ‘m’ age 27 years and Samson Suarez ‘m’ age 27 years, around Bodija Oju-Irin Area of Ibadan. “The duo suspected to be cultists and members of an armed robbery syndicate has been on the radar of the Command for quite a while until their apprehension on 17th April, 2021 at about 2000hrs. “Upon the arrest, the suspects were found in possession of; One single barrel locally made pistol, a locally made double barrel pistol, four live cartridges, an English axe, three mobile phones and a black mask. When interrogated, the duos confessed to have been members of “Aiye Confraternity” investigation is still ongoing to apprehend others still at large. “While deploying tactical and intelligence security apparatus to further strengthen the already existing security architecture of the Command, the Commissioner of Police CP Ngozi Onadeko, wishes to encourage the good people of Oyo State to be uneconomical with supporting the police as regards sharing of timely and credible information which could be instrumental to the birthing of a crime free State enjoyable by all and sundry.”