Senior Pastor of Awaiting The Second Coming Of Christ Ministry, Adewale Giwa, has declared that soon Nigerians will storm Abuja and chase Buhari away from the Presidential Villa. According to Giwa, even supporters of the president are now deserting and mocking him. According to Giwa, it is better to seek help from a robot than calling Buhari to save Nigeria from terrorists ravaging it. “I think the current situation is getting to the point where Nigerians will storm Abuja and chase Buhari away from Aso Villa,” the cleric said in a statement to DAILY POST on Wednesday. Giwa said it was now glaring that Buhari cannot handle what is presently befalling Nigeria, wondering if the President wants to allow Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen to take over the nooks and crannies of the country before he wakes up. “Even President Buhari’s supporters are now deserting and mocking him. Nigerians have considered themselves citizens without a leader. Everything I have said concerning the administration of All Progressives Congress since 2015 to date has come to pass,” the pastor said. “You can’t give what you don’t have. The APC was desperate for power and money, it never had plans to transform Nigeria. They came, grabbed power and are now using it against the citizens who voted for them. “From the North, East and South, there are killings by Fulani herdsmen, Boko Haram and other terrorists. You can’t have criminals in your government and expect miracles to happen. “People have lost confidence in President Buhari and his All Progressives Congress party. The president ignored warnings that he should resign, he also turned a deaf ear to a referendum that can lead to disintegration. Why do you keep running away from what can permanently solve the nation’s challenges? “Those who love Nigeria genuinely are those calling for a referendum. If your company is on the verge of collapse, what do you do? “You need to pause, take a deep breath and calmly analyze the situation that you find yourself in. Try to figure out where you have gone wrong, and the steps that you need to take to make them right. “As it is, President Buhari is not functioning well and it is better for Nigerians to pray to God for events that will reshape and rename Nigeria to happen in no time. Nigeria is on the verge of collapse, and do not forget that I said it that the president has created jobs for his fulani kinsmen through terrorism. “No foreign help can solve the insecurity challenges in Nigeria unless president Buhari allows Nigerians to go their separate ways. We will be able to identify ourselves. We will separate wheat from chaff,” he declared.