Ebonyi youths under the aegis of Amalgamated Ngbiejeogu Youth, ANY, on Wednesday condemned in totality the gruesome killings of over twelve innocent farmers at Umuogudu Akpu community in Ohaukwu LGA by suspected herders who invaded the area through Benue State border. The youths in a twenty-point communiqué signed by its President-General and Secretary, Prince Uche Ali Ega and Comrade Samuel Okpor as well as other community leaders which was forwarded to DAILY POST, insisted that it was herders that attacked the community and not Agila people. The youths who issued the communiqué shortly after an on-the-spot assessment on the affected communities said the attack was unprovoked, senseless and a deadly massacre in Umuogudu Akpu autonomous Community of Ngbo nation. They noted that the attack claimed many lives, left many wounded and scores of houses and other property burnt and utterly destroyed. The communiqué reads in part: “The Fulani herdsmen numbering over one hundred, armed to the teeth with most sophisticated weapons at the early hours of Monday, 12th April, 2021 invaded, maimed and unleashed an unimaginable terror on the people of Ngboejeogu from the Umugadu Umuogudu Akpu axis. “The gruesome attacks led to the horrific deaths of so many known citizens of Ngboejeogu. Whereas search is still being conducted in the affected areas to ascertain the level of damage and deaths recorded, over twelve (12) lacerated lifeless bodies have been recovered while the whereabouts of many persons are still unknown. “Over fifty-six (56) houses, yam bans, business places/shops were either burnt to ashes or utterly destroyed by the Fulani attackers. The attacks mostly affected four villages in Umuogudu Akpu Community axis of Ngbo clan namely: Ebele Umugadu, Otuebu Umugadu, Ndiegu Ibe-Agba and Odebo. “The Fulani’s were visibly sighted and heard by many survivors. The language they spoke was no other than fulfulde, the Fulani known language and their looks (appearances) and modus operandi were still same with that of Fulani’s. “The phone calls made to the mobile phones belonging to some of the slain victims were received by the attackers who spoke Fulfulde language with heavy Fulani accent. “We condemn in strong terms the barbaric acts of the heartless Fulani attackers. We acknowledge the presence of security agencies who came to intervene on the ugly situation. We frown at any attempt by any individual, group or government to twist the story to serve any political and or economic interests. “We wish to ask, now that the Ado Local Government Area Chairman of Benue State has debunked the allegation of their involvement in the attack, can the Ebonyi State government tell the world who attacked Ndu Ngbo on the 12th of April, 2021? “We wish to ask, what was/were the action plans of the meetings? How were the plans implemented? Was the assurance of ”no further attacks on Ndi Ebonyi” by the Fulani herdsmen given before those meetings or after the meetings? If before the meetings, why was the government apprehensive over the threat and if after, did it come before the Egedegede mayhem or after? “Granted that for the Fulani’s to attack Ngbo from Agila axis is suggestive of connivance of the duo which should be subject to investigation, but the Ebonyi State Government’s hasty conclusion in its defense of the enemy is quite unfortunate and unacceptable. As law-abiding people, we don’t intend to cause more tension or escalate issues from Agila axis, but such suspected connivance should be thoroughly investigated before reaching a conclusion,” the youths stated.