The Chairman of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chief Kolawole Jamodu has been honoured with the award of Honorary Doctorate Degree, Doctor of Science (DSC) honoris causa by Bells University of Technology, Ota, Ogun State. Jamodu was conferred with the Honorary Doctorate Degree at the 12th convocation ceremony of the institution held on Saturday April 10, 2021 at the University campus in Ota in recognition of his immense contribution to the institution,the business ecosystem and national development. L: R: Promoter/Founder, Bells University of Technology, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; Wife of the Chairman, NB Plc, Mrs. Funmi Jamodu; Chairman, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chief (Dr.) Kola Jamodu; Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Sade Morgan and Brewery Manager (Ota), NB Plc, Rotimi Odukudu at the conferment of Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science on Jamodu at the 12th convocation ceremony of the Bells University of Technology held in Ota, Ogun State Presenting the award to Jamodu, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Jeremiah Ojediran stated that the choice of Jamodu as one of the awardees is in recognition of his exceptional contribution to the development of the university and economic governance in Nigeria. “Chief Kola Jamodu, no doubt, is a corporate board guru per excellence by every standard moving from the position of employee into several executive roles and becoming the chairman of several blue-chip companies scattered in different sectors of the economy. His role in the phenomenal growth of the Bells University of Technology till date remains evergreen. Given what he has contributed to the institution, the corporate community and Nigerian economy at large, he certainly deserves to be specially recognized, which informed why we have chosen to honour him with this award”, Ojediran said. L-R: Corporate Affairs Director, NB Plc., Sade Morgan; Chairman, NB Plc., Chief (Dr.) Kola Jamodu; Wife of the Chairman, NB Plc., Mrs. Funmi Jamodu and Vice Chancellor, Bells University of Technology, Ota, Prof. Jeremiah Ojediran at the conferment of Honorary Degree of Doctor of Science on Jamodu at the 12th convocation ceremony of the Bells University of Technology held in Ota, Ogun State In his acceptance speech, Chief Kolawole Jamodu thanked the University for the honour noting that the recognition would further drive him to do more to help businesses thrive and overall national development. “I am very proud to be associated with this great institution. As immediate past Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, I appreciate the opportunity to serve in various capacities in the university. I sincerely thank the Council, the University Senate for adding value to my contribution through the conferment of this honorary degree. I sincerely appreciate The Bells University of Technology for this award. I believe the only way to show appreciation is to continue to contribute my quota to the development of this university especially in its quest to attain greatness as a world-class university. I pledge, as an alumnus, to continue to support the university and of course, impact lives in the best way I can, as service to humanity.” he said. In his own remarks, the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Jordi Borrut-Bel said “On behalf of the Board, Management and the entire Staff of Nigerian Breweries Plc, I heartily congratulate our esteemed Chairman Dr. Kolawole Jamodu on this well deserved honour. We are all very proud of you and wish you more great accomplishments in future” he added. An alumnus of the Harvard Business School, Boston, USA, Jamodu is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria; a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Cost and Management Accountants, London and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators (ICSAN), London. Beyond his foray in the private sector, Chief Jamodu had served Nigerian government as Honourable Minister of Industry in 2001. He is currently on the Board of Nigerian Breweries Plc as its Chairman. He was a former President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and a Past President of the Harvard Business School Alumni Association of Nigeria. In 2011, in recognition of his service to humanity,he was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Science by the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta He is a recipient of the award of Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic, a national honor bestowed on him in 2014. Signed Sade Morgan Corporate Affairs Director