Inter-Party Advisory Council Nigeria (IPAC), Cross River State has queried the Cross River State Government over N18. 4billion Federal Government refund to the State. The Federal Executive Council had in June 3rd 2020 approved the sum of one hundred and forty eight billion, one hundred and forty one million, nine hundred and eighty seven thousand, one hundred and sixty one naira and twenty five kobo only (148,141,987,161,25) for repairs of 20 federal roads and one bridge. The States that benefited were Bayelsa, Cross River, Ondo, Osun and Rivers States, respectively. Out of the approved sum, Cross River State received a total of eighteen billion, three hundred and ninety four million, seven hundred and thirty seven thousand, six hundred and eight Naira and eighty five kobo (18,394,737,608,85) only. IPAC in a statement dated April 16th 2020, titled ‘Request for details of 18.4 billion Naira federal governments refunds for repairs of federal roads in Cross River State’, signed by the Chairman, Comrade Anthony Bisong Attah lamented the inability of the state government to inform the people about the money or what it was used for. “We write to request for details of the refunds made by Federal Government to Cross River State for repairs of 20 Federal roads and one bridge from 2005 We are worried that while other states have announced receipts of the money as well as enlisted projects for which the money will be expended, we have not heard anything from you or your media aides about this money. “Is it that our share of 18.4 billion naira has not been released? We really need answers to enable us properly enlighten the people. its also important to us as critical Stakeholders of our state because arguably this is the biggest financial envelope in the history of our state. “We advise that you kindly tell Cross Riverians everything about that money so that the matter will be put to rest” the group stated noting that on the 13th of August, 2020, the Federal Movement forwarded a letter to the National Assembly for approval of the money and both chambers of the National Assembly approved the money on the 24th of November, 2020. “Consequently, this money was released to the affected states in January, 2021. Your response to this burning issue is highly anticipated, Sir,” the group pleaded. When DAILY POST called the Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to Governor Ben Ayade, Christian Ita on Sunday for comment, he did not pick his calls, neither did he respond to text message sent to him