Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Presidency, yesterday, defended the embattled Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, over his past comments in support of terrorist groups. Buhari’s spokesman, Garba Shehu, in a statement aligned the presidency with the submission of the embattled Minister that he was young when he made those statements and his position had since changed. 2. The Nigeria Labour Congress yesterday declared a five-day withdrawal of services from both public and private organisations in Kaduna State to protest the recent mass sack of workers by the state government. The NLC President Ayuba Wabba said the action would become total and unconditional if there is no remorse from the state government. 3. The Federal Government has urged Nigerian elites to stop fanning the embers of disintegration. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed, who gave the admonition in Abuja yesterday, said they would bear the brunt more if the country breaks up. 4. The Federal Government, yesterday, acknowledged the nation’s precarious security situation and came up with a grim verdict: Nigeria is bleeding. Minister of Defence Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd) disclosed this to State House Correspondents in Abuja at the special weekly briefing organised by the presidential communication team. 5. Barely 24 hours after bandits launched an attack on a military camp in Zagzaga, Munya Local Government Area of Niger state, the army has shut down its camp and evacuated all its troops from the community. 6. Enugwu-Ukwu community in Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State, yesterday, described as very malicious and absolute falsehood a report in a national daily that it hunts down albinos and kills them for rituals and other fetish activities. 7. The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) has vowed not to suspend the nationwide strike until state governors demonstrate some level of seriousness. JUSUN officials, led by its Deputy National President, Emmanuel Abioye and Jimoh Musa Alonge, stated this while explaining the reason it was difficult to heed the CJN’s demand to call off the strike. 8. The Lagos State Police Command has arrested Olarenwaju James, 48, aka Baba Ijesha, a popular Nollywod actor, for defiling a minor. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi confirmed the arrest in a statement on Thursday. 9. A section of the Delta State Police Command headquarters was gutted by fire on Thursday. The fire was said to have destroyed property worth millions of naira at the command headquarters. 10. The House of Representatives yesterday urged the Federal Government to strengthen the Nigerian Correctional Service and other security services to tackle the incessant jailbreaks across the country. This was part of a motion on matters of urgent public importance by Ifeanyi Chudi Momah.