The Technical working group on Childhood Killer Diseases known as Niger State Action Committee on CKD (NASSCKD) has warned that inadequate funding to IMCI resulting in stock out of Amoxicillin DT and Zn-LO-ORS may increase possibilities of Under-five death in Niger State. The committee said Primary Health Care Centers (PHCs) across the state have stocked out of Amoxycillin DT and Zinc LO-ORS as 19, 000 children out of 195,000 may die before their 5th birthday according to the Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey of 2013 The NSACCKD, TWG meeting, which expressed fear that there could be increased under-five mortality in the state held its meeting on
zoom. The meeting was coordinated by the Niger StatState Ministry of Health and State Primary Health Care Development Agency (SPHCDA), with the support of the Partnership For Advocacy In Child and Family Health At Scale (PACFaH@Scale) through the Centre for Communication and Reproductive Health, CCRHS. The Project Director of the CCRHS, Dr. Aliyu Yabagi Shehu, during the meeting, urged members to deliberate on the tasks as contained in the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the group, activities around Niger IMCI/CKD programmes and Policy Implementation resulting into Under -5 mortality. Dr. Shehu said “We fear that there will be an increase in death of under 5 children from Pneumonia and Diarrhea illness due to funding shortages to those responsible for managing childhood killer diseases, to support the provision of Amoxicillin DT and Zn-LO-ORS, which is the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends for treatment of Diarrhea. “Moreover, additional funds are needed for the COVID-19 response to protect HCWs and women accessing services with their children in the state and conflict-affected LGAs of the state”. He also lamented that despite the Niger state government’s commitment to providing universal health for indigenes, a majority of health centres lack necessary drugs. “All childhood illnesses are categorized and budgeted under child health. From 2015 to date there has been budgetary allocations year in and out but are not backed up by releases. All the activities around IMCI/childhood killer disease are mostly funded by development partners”.