News of attacks by criminal elements in their various guise, either as Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgents, bandits, kidnappers, herdsmen, IPOB/ESN or armed robbers have become normal since the beginning of the year 2021 as suspected criminal elements have killed thousands of Nigerians in a space of 4 months. Many Nigerians, at the end of 2020, had prayed they never have to experience what they went through because of the global COVID-19 pandemic, as they looked forward to a more favourable year as they crossed over to 2021. But DAILY POST observes that the first quarter of the year proved to be laced with greater dangers, occasioned by insecurity and growing dissent in almost every part of the country. Our correspondent recalls news of deaths, killings, kidnappings, attacks leading to destruction of property in almost every part of the country. Many Nigerians who spoke to DAILY POST randomly believe the country is under siege, a siege perpetrated by Nigerians, many of whom are claiming to have one grievance or the other. Nigerians believe that many other commercial criminals kidnapping for profit and killing their victims have continued to operate freely without questions. With violence and killings spreading rapidly across different states in the country, DAILY POST observes that no particular region is spared. Experts believe that if this continues, it will be massive death harvest at the end of 2021. But leaders and politicians have continued to trade blames, a dangerous trend that many believe will further complicate the insecurity situation. The current insecurity situation has threatened Governors and other political actors across the country. Only a few days ago, DAILY POST had reported an attack on the residence of Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State. The state is currently under a heavy security threat. Similarly, Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State had been attacked at least twice by gunmen in the state. Also attacked was the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. Ortom known for his dogged stance against Fulani herdsmen operating in the state was attacked while on his farm in the state. These attacks and killings have drawn global attention to Nigeria with many reactions and little or no effort to tackle the menace. From a rough estimate, gleaned from Nigeria Security tracker, a project of the Council on Foreign Affairs, the combined attacks of these armed groups and other lesser criminals, including cultists, have led to more than 5000 innocent deaths in the country. This figure does not, however, include casualties on the side of the insurgents, bandits, herdsmen, kidnappers, cultists and armed robbers but that of innocent Nigerians killed for being Nigerians and security agents, whose lives were cut short, mostly in the line of duty. DAILY POST gathered that there have been several attacks across the country leading to deaths that were not reported in the media. Many believe lives in Nigeria has become very cheap, that news of killings no longer sound strange, stating that it has become a “situation of where and who is next?” Below is a computation of killings in Nigeria between January and April, 2021, with some days having multiple entries and almost no day being spared, an alarming data which many have said is bound to depress even the strong hearted. January 1: The year 2021 opened on a sad news as seven farmers were killed by bandits in Babban Rami in Mashegu LGA of Niger State. This was closely followed by the killing on January 2 of Quadri Okunola by unknown men at Macaulay/Odudu, along Igbogbo/ Bayeku road in Ikorodu, Lagos. On the same day one person was killed in Osogbo Osun State, when cult groups clashed during a carnival party at Isale-Osun area of the town. Still on January 2, bandits killed a chief executive officer of a filling station and his two cousins in Idere, Ibarapa North LGA, Oyo State, while on the same day, another set of bandits invaded Kawaran Rafiu village in Igabi LGA of Kaduna State and killed the chief Imam of the village, Danleeman Isah. The Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Yohanna Abu, was also killed. Not done, bandits also killed 19 persons in Giwa, Kaduna, ending the day with the killing of three persons in the Ibarapa area of Oyo State. On January 3, No fewer than 19 people were killed in a two-day attack in Kaduna. Twelve of the victims were indigenes of Kaya, Gura LGA, while Boko Haram insurgents killed six soldiers and one civilian in Chibok, Borno. On the same day, bandits struck in Birnin-Gwari, Kaduna State, killing nine persons. The orgy of violence and killing continued on January 4, when four people were shot while property worth millions of naira were destroyed in a bloody violence in some parts of Ibadan, Oyo State, while bandits operating in Kaduna added to their murderous haul; nine people, including three infants were killed when they attacked Zankoro community. In the Niger Delta, two passengers were killed and many others were declared missing following an attack on two commercial boats on Bonny Waterways, Rivers State. January 5 witnessed the killing of one person in Toto, Nasarawa State, while pirates also killed two in Bonny, Rivers State. On January 6, bandits killed a police man and kidnapped five others in attacks in Shiroro and Raji Local Governments in Niger State while four were killed in Chikun, Kaduna State, also by bandits. On this same day, Boko Haram insurgents killed commuters, whose number were estimated to be 10 in Nganzai, Borno State. A Timeline of Avoidable Deaths January 7: Gunmen abducted a traveller and killed his driver along Ise/Isua/Akoko Highway in Ondo State January 7 Bandits attacked Katarma village in Chikun Local Government, Kaduna, killed four persons and kidnapped many women. January 8: Gunmen attacked a police station and killed three police officers in Ezza South, Ebonyi. January 8: Two passengers were killed in a pirate attack on two commercial boats around Dema Abbey community on Bonny waterways January 9: Gunmen killed three in Kauru, Kaduna. January 9: 28 Boko Haram militants and 13 soldiers were killed during a clash in Gujba, Yobe. January 10: Gunmen killed three mobile police officers in Ughelli North, Delta. January 10: Gunmen killed two in Riyom, Plateau. January 10: Gunmen opened fire on a couple, killing the lady in the process at Ekuigbo, Ethiope, Delta State. January 11: Five soldiers and six Boko Haram militants were killed during a clash in Damboa, Borno. January 11: Gunmen killed a councillorship candidate and kidnapped two others in Oshimili South, Delta. January 11: A Boko Haram member on suicide mission killed himself and six Nigerian soldiers in Damboa, Borno. January 11: Inter-communal clash between the people of Edondon and Ohumuruket in Obubra LGA, Cross River claimed no fewer than four lives January 11: Two people were feared dead, while three others were missing after suspected pirates attacked two passenger boats along the coastal waters of Aru-Gbanaama and Polokiri in Bonny LGA of Rivers State. January 12: Gunmen killed two in Kauru, Kaduna. January 12: Suspected land grabbers killed four in Ikorodu, Lagos. January 12: Two villagers were killed in an ambush by gunmen between Bakin Kogi and Narido village in Kauru LGA of Kaduna State January 10-January 12: Cult clashes resulted in 14 deaths in Ikorodu, Lagos. January 12: At least five persons were reportedly shot dead in a renewed clash between the people of Emede and Igbide clans in Isoko South LGA, Delta. January 12: Mr. Obiezu, the younger brother to Imo State Accountant General, Valentine Obiezu, was killed after a failed attempt to kidnap him at his village, Akatta, Oru East LGA. January 12: The remains of a farmer, Wole Agbola, who was abducted, was discovered in the bush in Aba-Odo, Oyo State a few kilometres from where he was abducted after his family paid N2million ransom. January 13: Bandits killed two in Igabi, Kaduna. January 13: Suspected herders killed two at Iniongwu village in Guma LGA, Benue State. January 13: Robbers shot and killed Pastor Kelvin Orumor, the General Overseer of Kingdom Advancement Christian Centre, at Edjeba area of Warri, Delta State. January 14: Bandits killed two farmers at Chikaji Village in Igabi LGA, Kaduna. January 14: Boko Haram landmines killed five soldiers in Chibok, Borno. January 15: Communal violence led to two deaths in Ibarapa North, Oyo. January 15: Bandits killed five police officers and kidnapped thirteen others in Birnin-Gwari, Kaduna. January 16: Bandits killed one in Igabi LGA, three in Chikun LGA, and one in Giwa LGA in Kaduna (5) January 16: Bandits killed a livestock guard and shot NSCDC officer in Makurdi, Benue January 16: Communal violence led to two deaths in Anambra East, Anambra. January 16: Deputy Registrar of FUTA, Dr Amos Arijesuyo died from gunshot wounds he sustained after he was attacked by gunmen along Ilesa-Akure Highway while returning to Akure from Ibadan. January 16: Two were killed and scores injured in a renewed crisis between Umueri and Aguleri communities of Anambra State. January 17: Kidnappers killed a man, Elliot Ofa and kidnapped three others at Ethiope West LGA, Delta State. January 17: Bandits killed 10 during an attack on Janbako, a community in Maradun LGA, Zamfara State. January 17: Bandits killed five including an 80-year-old woman and a village head in separate attacks on two villages of Chikun as well as travellers in Giwa LGA of Kaduna State. January 17: Five riot policemen were killed in an ambush on the highway in Kaduna State. January 17: 24 people were killed as bandits and cultists went on rampage in Borno, Benue, Cross River and Niger. A soldier and five civilians died in a clash in Maiduguri. Late Gana’s loyalists attacked a Benue community and killed three persons. Bakassi cult clash claimed four lives in Cross River. A Catholic priest was killed by bandits in Niger with his brother and 17 others kidnapped. January 17: Seven vigilantes in Mashogu LGA of Niger State were killed in an ambush by bandits January 17: Bandits killed 10 including one soldier, and five bandits were killed in Maradun, Zamfara. January 17: Gunmen killed two police officers and two others in Port Harcourt, Rivers. January 17: Bandits killed one in Igabi LGA, killed one and kidnapped one in Zaria LGA, and killed two in Giwa LGA in Kaduna (4). January 17: Two persons were gunned down in Ughelli North LGA of Delta State during cults clash at a popular hotel along Warri-Ekuigb Road. January 18: Gunmen killed a policeman, injured two others and carted away two guns in Borokiri, Port Harcourt. January 18: No fewer than five persons were killed and seven others were injured in a renewed hostility over land between Uko Ntenge and Uko Akpan communities in Mbo LGA of Akwa Ibom State. January 18: Sectarian violence led to seven deaths in Mbo, Akwa Ibom.
January 18: Nine soldiers and five Boko Haram militants were killed during a clash in Nasarawa. January 18: Bandits killed 35 in Maru, Zamfara. January 18: Bandits killed seven vigilantes in Mashegu, Niger State. January 19: Gunmen killed a young man, Ajitwewunmeshe Emmah in Igarra, Akoko-Edo LGA of Edo State. January 20: Bandits killed two in Chikun LGA, one in Giwa LGA, and one in Igabi LGA in Kaduna (4) January 21: Bandits killed 13 and kidnapped 11 in Bungudu, Zamfara. January 21: Yansakai, an outlawed vigilante group, killed two herdsmen in Maradun, Zamfara. January 21 Bandits killed four people in isolated locations of Giwa, Chikun and Igabi LGAs of Kaduna State January 23: A communal clash resulted in 40 deaths in Ohaukwu, Ebonyi. January 23: Pirates killed one sailor and kidnapped 15 off the coast of Nigeria (estimated at Bonny, Rivers). January 24: Bandits killed a seven-month pregnant woman, Aisha, along the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State. January 24: Two persons were shot and killed when armed robbed robbed traders along Bazunu Street, Warri South LGA of Delta State. January 24: Two persons were killed during clashes between cultists at Coker-Aguda LCDA of Lagos. January 24: Two persons, a soldier and a policeman, were killed when gunmen attacked a military checkpoint at Oton, a suburb of Sapele LGA of Delta State. January 24: Five people died and 10 were abducted when gunmen attacked Kaffin-Koro and adjoining villages of Paikoro LGA of Niger State. January 24: Kidnappers killed and dumped Chairman of Ardo Kola LGA of Taraba State. January 24: A police officer who reportedly went to arrest a hemp smoker along Jos street in Kafanchan, Jema’a Lga of Kaduna State was killed in the process January 24: Three persons were killed and 15 women were abducted in an attack by bandits in some communities in Munya and Paikoro LGAs of Niger State. January 24: Gunmen killed one police officer and one soldier in Sapele, Delta.
January 24: Bandits killed seven in Maradun, Zamfara. January 25: One soldier and nine civilians were killed during a clash between the military and ESN of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), in Orlu, Imo. January 25: Gunmen killed two police officers in Karim-Lamido, Taraba. January 26: Bandits killed three in Zurmi, Zamfara. January 26: Gunmen killed two policemen in Karim Lamido LGA of Taraba State. January 26: Gunmen killed two people, a community leader in Ugbori, Warri South LGA; and a mason in Orerokpe, Okpe LGA of Delta State. January 26: Three persons were reportedly killed and four others were abducted in a renewed clash between the people of Usaka Uko in Ikwuano LGA of Abia and Nkari people of Ini LGA, Akwa Ibom State. January 27: Robbers killed a motorcyclist around Leventis, Sango area of Ibadan, Oyo State after snatching his bike. January 27: Bandits killed ten in Faskari, Katsina. January 27: Cult clashes resulted in four deaths in Warri South, Delta. January 27: Four persons were reportedly shot dead in cult clashes in two Delta communities. One of the deceased was shot in Ekurede Itsekiri community while the other three were killed in Egbokodo near Ubeji. Both communities are in Warri South LGA, Delta State. January 28: Bandits attacked Magarya, a community in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State, killing three persons, burning several houses and rustling 100 cattle. January 28: Bandits killed four persons in Igabi and Chikun, Kaduna State. January 28: Barely 48 hours after President Buhari appointed new service chiefs, bandits went on rampage in Niger, Kaduna and Taraba states killing five persons and kidnapping 83 people including 27 wedding guests. January 28: Bandits kidnapped fifty in Shiroro LGA and killed one and kidnapped six in Lapai LGA in Niger State. January 28: Two were killed when gunmen attacked a police station in Ibadan, Oyo. January 28: Bandits killed one in Igabi LGA, three in Kajuru LGA, and 12 in Giwa LGA in Kaduna (16) January 28: Bandits killed 11 and kidnapped five in Faskari, Katsina. January 28: Gunmen attacked a police van and killed a policeman at Uratta Junction along Aba-Port Harcourt highway, Abia January 29: Boko Haram killed two soldiers and kidnapped two police officers in Dikwa, Borno. January 29: Bandits attacked a Fulani settlement at Na’ Ikko village in GIWA LGA of Kaduna State, killed 12 persons and razed many houses. January 30: Suspected Fulani herdsmen killed one and kidnapped one in Akure North, Ondo January 30: A 26-year old student of Delta State Polytechnic, Ochuko Frank, was macheted to death by cultists in Oghara, Delta State January 30: Prince Elonuya Dennis Abuda, who was based in the USA was abducted and killed by kidnappers after collecting N10milion ransom at Benin Bypass, Edo styate January 31: One person was killed and three others were injured in an orgy of violence that broke out over the chairmanship of Ekogbere community in Burutu LGA, Delta State. January 31: Boko Haram killed two police officers and one Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) member, and kidnapped two police officers in Magumeri, Borno. January 31: Bandits killed one in Zangon-Kataf, Kaduna. January 31: Bandits killed two and kidnapped two in Giwa, Kaduna. January 31: Bandits killed five in Sabon Birni, Sokoto. February 1: Hoodlums attacked the house of Seriki Fulani in Egua, Yewa North LGA, Ogun State, Alhaji Adamu Oloru, killing one person and many cows.
February 1: Bandits killed two in Lere LGA and one in Birnin-Gwari LGA in Kaduna (3) February 1: Gunmen killed one police officer in Isiala Ngwa North, Abia. February 1: Bandits killed 27 and kidnapped 40 in Shiroro, Niger State. February 1: Gunmen killed one police officer and kidnapped three Chinese nationals in Atakumosa West, Osun. February 1: Bandits killed two persons in Fatika District, Giwa LGA of Kaduna State. February 1: bandits killed a man during an attack at a recreation centre in Wawan Rafi village zangon-Kataf, Kaduna February 1: Gunmen killed four in Aba, Abia. February 1: Gunmen burnt a police station and killed an officer in Umuoba community, Abia February 1: A man was tied and killed in his workshop at Egbu Road, Owerri, Imo State. February 1: Herdsmen killed three in Orhionmwon, Edo. February 2: An OPC member was killed by herders in the bush during a search for a kidnapped farmer at Iju, Akure North LGA, Ondo State February 2: Bandits killed three persons in separate attatcks in Lere and Birnin-Gwari LGA of Kaduna State February 3: Bandits killed two in Bassa, Plateau. February 3: Bandits killed two in Igabi, Kaduna. February 3: Gunmen invaded a market in Awo Omama, Oru East LGA, Imo State and killed two persons and injured many while chasing one of their members February 4: Gunmen killed three at a church in Ihiala, Anambra. February 4: Gunmen killed five in Khana, Rivers. February 4: Sectarian violence led to 12 deaths in Bassa, Plateau. February 4: Gunmen killed a young man travelling on a bike at Nedele, Emohua LGA, Rivers State. February 4: Bandits killed a man, Yusuf Suleiman 28 days after his wedding at Abba, Zaria LGA, Kaduna February 5: Bandits killed six in Birnin-Gwari, Kaduna. February 5: Two police officers and one gunman were killed during an attack on a police station in Obowo, Imo February 5: Bandits killed two and kidnapped five in Zaria, Kaduna. February 6: Bandits killed 14 in Birnin-Gwari LGA and five in Kajuru LGA of Kaduna (19) February 6: A communal clash led to two deaths in Irepodun, Osun. February 6: A young man was killed in Iyara axis of Warri, Delta State February 6: Gunmen killed one police officer and one civilian in Warri South, Delta February 6: Former Owerri NBA chairman was macheted to death by assailants in his office in Imo February 7: Sectarian violence led to 11 deaths in Ajaokuta, Kogi. February 7:Three persons were killed and five abducted by kidnappers at various locations in Peji, Kuje Area of Abuja February 7: Suspected herders killed a man, Dele Olowoniyi during an attack on Oha village, Imeko-Afon LGA, Ogun State February 7: Hoodlums killed APC ward chairman in Gboko, Benue State February 7: one person was killed and three were seriously injured when rival APC factions in Jigawa clashed during the visit of Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State. February 7: Hoodlums attacked Obowo Police Division, IMO and killed two policemen while trying to free their detained members February 7: A clash between two gangs- Agarawu and Onola boys claimed the life of a young man identified as Tiroo in Lagos Island, Lagos February 7: Gunmen killed a mobile police man in NPA Area of Warrior, Delta State February 7: Two persons were killed during Erin-Osun and Ilobu communal clash in Osun February 7: A suspected member of a criminal gang known as Shila Boys in Jimeta, Yola North LGA, Adamawa was killed by a mob for robbing and stabbing a lady. February 8: Herdsmen killed six in Bassa, Plateau. February 8: Bandits killed 10 in Birnin-Gwari LGA, one in Giwa LGA, seven in Chikun LGA, one in Igabi LGA, and five in Kauru LGA in Kaduna (24) February 9: Bandits killed 23 persons in Kaduna in diffent attacks in Birnin-Gwari, Chikun, Igabi and kauri LGAs. February 9: Boko Haram killed three soldiers and injured two in Goniri, Geidam, Borno February 10: Gunmen killed three at a town hall meeting in Idemili North, Anambra. February 10: Sectarian violence led to the deaths of two police officers in Takum, Taraba. February 11: Gunmen attacked a mobile police checkpoint in Chanchanji village, takum LGA of Taraba, killed a police man and injured four others February 11: Hoodlums stabbed a 98 year old woman, Oyibo Ogidi to death at Amafor, Ovoko, Igbo-Eze South LGA, Enugu February 11: Herdsmen killed two farmers at Owode- Ketu community in Yeea North LGA, Ogun February 11: Herdsmen killed two in Owo, Ondo. February 11: Herdsmen killed two in Egbado North, Ogun. February 11: Gunmen killed three in Oyigbo, Rivers. February 11: Herders attacked operatives of Amotekun and killed two people along Ute Road, Owo LGA, Ondo. They had earlier killed a farmer identified as Lanre, which made locals to invite Amotekun (3) February 12: Herdsmen killed four in Egbado North, Ogun. February 12: Sectarian violence led to three deaths in Akinyele, Oyo. February 12: Boko Haram killed four in Biu, Borno. February 12: Boko Haram killed three Nigerian soldiers in Kukawa, Borno. February 13: Bandits attacked Baka village, Igabi LGA, Kaduna and killed a father and his son, who resisted being kidnapped. February 14: Bandits killed three passengers in Yakowa village in Chikun LGA of Kaduna; and abducted 18 passengers in Yakila village in Rafi LGA, Niger State February 14: Herdsmen killed three farmers at Ijugbere village in Owo, Ondo February 14: A police inspector was killed by gunmen at the premises of a penticostal church along Oviri-Ogor Road, Ughelli, Delta State February 16: The village head of Kusherki in Rafi local government area of Niger state, Alhaji Masud Abubakar has been killed along with 10 other villagers by bandits. Not only that, the bandits also kidnapped twenty villagers from different communities in the area while the wife of slain traditional ruler was among those kidnapped (11 killed) February 16: Bandits killed eleven in Rafi, Niger State. February 16: Boko Haram killed five police officers and two civilians in Bursari, Yobe. February 16: Suspected Indigenous People of Biafra members killed six children in Idemili North, Anambra. February 17: Gunmen killed one and kidnapped forty-two at a school in Rafi, Niger State. February 17: Suspected herdsmen killed seven in Ovia North-East, Edo. February 17: Gunmen killed one and kidnapped thirty in Shiroro, Niger State. February 19: Boko Haram killed “many” (estimated at twenty) civilians in Dikwa, Borno (20) February 19: Gunmen killed one and kidnapped “several” (estimated at ten) in Rafi, Niger State. February 19: Three were killed during protests in Billiri, Gombe. March 2: Bandits killed ten and kidnapped one hundred miners in Maru, Zamfara. March 6: Boko Haram killed three in Askira/Uba, Borno. March 7: Three soldiers and “some” (estimated at ten) Boko Haram militants were killed during a clash in Kaga, Borno. March 7: Bandits kidnapped twenty-five in Sabuwa, Katsina. March 8: Gunmen killed four in Ibarapa, Oyo. March 9: Vigilantes killed forty bandits in Lavun, Niger State. March 9: Communal violence resulted in seven deaths in Ohaukwu, Ebonyi. March 9: Bandits killed one and kidnapped eighteen in Munya, Niger State. March 10: Bandits killed thirteen in Maradun, Zamfara. March 10: Gangs killed seventeen in Toto, Nassarawa. March 10: Bandits killed four in Igabi LGA, one in Giwa LGA, and two in Chikun LGA in Kaduna (7) March 11: Bank robbers killed five in Odo-Otin, Osun. March 11: Bandits killed one police officer during an attack on a police station in Katsina-Ala, Benue. March 11: The Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA) killed fifteen soldiers and four Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) members in Guzamala, Borno. March 11: Bandits killed “scores” (estimated at forty) in Maradun and Tsafe LGAs in Zamfara (40) March 22: Two female Boko Haram bombers killed themselves accidentally in Konduga, Borno. March 23: APC and PDP supporters clashed in Etsako East, Edo. There were no casualties. March 26: Robbers launched a coordinated attack on banks in Owo, Ondo, killing two bank staff and losing six of their own when the police retaliated. March 27-28: A cult war resulted in four deaths in Awka North, Anambra. March 28: Gunmen killed a Peoples Democratic Party chieftain and kidnapped his wife in Tafa, Niger State. March 28: A cult war resulted in three deaths in Ogbadibo, Benue. March 28: Sectarian violence resulted in eight deaths in Uzu-Uwani, Enugu. March 28: A cult war resulted in three deaths in Osogbo, Osun. March 29: Herdsmen killed twenty in Ishielu, Ebonyi. March 29: Gunmen killed three in Ezza South, Ebonyi. March 29: Sectarian violence resulted in three deaths in Bassa, Plateau. March 29: Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) killed four police officers in Essien-Udim, Akwa Ibom. March 30: Gunmen killed a Catholic priest and three others in Katsina-Ala, Benue. March 30: A bank robbery resulted in the deaths of one police officer, one robber, and four civilians in Aniocha North, Delta. March 30: Bandits killed six in Chikun Local Government Area (LGA), one in Giwa LGA, and one in Kajuru LGA in Kaduna (8) March 30: Communal violence led to seven deaths in Ibiono Ibom, Akwa Ibom. March 30: Communal violence led to three deaths in Owan West, Edo. March 31: Gunmen killed three police officers and kidnapped a commissioner at a rally in Aguata, Anambra. March 31: Boko Haram claimed responsibility for gunning down a Nigerian Air Force jet with two pilots around Gwoza, Borno; the air force rejected this claim. April 1: Bandits killed five soldiers and nine civilians and kidnapped twenty in Shiroro, Niger State. April 1: Sectarian violence led to four deaths in Ekeremor, Bayelsa. April 2: Nigerian soldiers killed eight Boko Haram militants in Monguno, Borno. April 2: Bandits killed two in Kokona, Nassarawa. April 17: Sectarian violence led to eleven deaths in Gwer West, Benue. April 18: Bandits killed one in Kajuru Local Government Area (LGA) and two in Igabi LGA in Kaduna. April 19: Police officers killed three bandits in Kankara, Katsina. April 19: Two police officers and three gunmen were killed during a clash in Dunukofia, Anambra. April 19: Bandits killed two in Zurmi, Zamfara. April 19: Bandits killed ten as police officers repelled the attack and killed thirty bandits in Maradun, Zamfara. April 20: Bandits killed an Amotekun operative in Afijio, Oyo. April 20: Sectarian violence led to two deaths in Ohaukwu, Ebonyi. April 20: Kidnappers killed one and abducted twenty-three from Greenfield University in Chikun, Kaduna; five of the kidnapped students were later found dead. April 21: Gunmen killed two police officers during an attack on a police station in Uzo-Uwani, Enugu. April 21: Sectarian violence led to two deaths in Makurdi LGA, two in Agatu LGA, and two in Guma LGA in Benue(6) April 21: Bandits killed sixty in Gusau LGA, fifteen in Maradun LGA, and fifteen in Bakura LGA in Zamfara (90) April 23: Nigerian troops killed twenty-one Boko Haram militants who killed eleven civilians during an attack on Geidam, Yobe. April 23: Sectarian violence led to seventeen deaths in Guma, Benue April 24: Eight people were killed in Imo State, including three security agents attached to the country home of Governor Hope Uzodinma in Omuma, Oru East Local Government Area of the state. April 24: Five women killed in a stampede on Katsina metropolis during the sharing of N500 Ramadan alms *Additional Information/data courtesy Nigeria Security Tracker