Niger State Governor and Chairman North Central Governors Forum (NCGF) Abubakar Sani Bello says out of the 74,110 doses of COVID-19 vaccines received by the State, 35,170 have been utilized. Bello, who stated this in a virtual town hall meeting of the North Central states on COVID-19 vaccination held in Nassarawa State. He said the dozes of the vaccines utilized currently in Niger State stands at 47.5%. He assured that the state will not exceed the 50% utilization of the vaccines as directed by the Federal Government to allow for a second dose to those who have taken the first dose. According to him, the state has been able to establish one of the best molecular laboratories in the country and the state government is leveraging on the pandemic to reposition the health system in the state particularly in responding to future pandemics. The NCGF Chairman revealed that though, there were initial doubts in accepting the vaccine by the people, the state government embarked on sensitization which immediately resolved the issues. “Among those that have benefited in the first dose are strategic leaders; comprising all State Executive Council Members, State House of Assembly Members, Religious and Traditional leaders, frontline workers and their supporting staff, as well as at-risk populations such as men in uniform, security personnel, petrol station attendants among others. Efforts are on to ensure that all eligible persons are vaccinated,” the governor stated. “Also, since the first case of COVID-19 was recorded in the state, the state government took giant strides in combating the pandemic by coming up with a strategic working document, establishing a task force involving all relevant stakeholders and the passage of executive orders geared towards containing the pandemic.” Bello, who participated alongside the state commissioner for Health Dr Mohammed Makusidi commended the organizers of the event and the efforts of the Federal Government and the National Primary Health Care Development Agency for coordinating the vaccination rollout.