The Dean of Faculty of Arts, University of Ibadan, Professor Afis Oladosu, has declared that Boko Haram menace is a product of ignorance and poverty. Oladosu made this disclosure while speaking during the 3rd annual Shina Peller/ Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council Ramadan Lecture/Iftar held at NUJ Press Centre in Ibadan at the weekend. The don in his lecture “Islamic perspective: Media, leadership and quest for national unity in the face of growing insecurity in the land”, said that Boko Haram menace which is one of the major security challenges in the country is the result of ignorance, poverty and elite failure in the northern region. He said, “Boko Haram is a product of ignorance, poverty. Boko Haram is a product of elite in the north who thought that they have arrived and they are no where.” Oladosu, while speaking further also explained that one of the greatest challenges confronting the nation was the choice of leader who will take Nigeria to the promise land. While urging Nigerians to move closer to God and sincere in their choice of leadership at all levels, stressed that the people would not enjoy leadership at all level if they failed to differentiate between a leader they deserve and the one desired.
“No doubt, we all know where we were, we all know where we are, we all know where we desire. This is the difference between the leader we deserve and a leader that we desire. “Religion which ought to be a solution to the problem in Nigeria has now become part of it. We need to return to leaders who have the fear of God. We should all desist from leaders who benchmark their posterity with the adversities,” he said. Oladosu lamented the remuneration of media practitioners in the country, saying the remuneration was not commensurate with the job they are doing for the society. He cautioned journalists who had chosen the path of dishonesty, mischief and blackmail to desist from such, saying it would affects the country negatively.  NUJ Chairman, Alhaji Ademola Babalola in his remark, noted that welfare of journalists in the state is his cardinal area of focus. “Major landmark are; take-off of a novel and unprecedented Journalists Trust Fund where members in distress can quickly draw interest-free loan repayable within three months. The welfare of our colleagues tops the list as they can attest to unprecedented hands of fellowship we are extending to them on regular basis. We can do better. We will do even more by God’s grace,” he said.  Peller who represents Iseyin/Iwajowa/ Itesiwaju /Kajola) federal constituency in the House of Representatives, called on Nigerians to embrace politics of purpose for effective leadership at all levels of government.
He called on media practitioners not to allow themselves to be used irresponsibly or callously by politicians to fulfill their political interests at the detriment of the nation. “I want to call the attention of Nigeria Union of Journalists and everybody present here on the key things that is affecting our nation, one of which is leadership. “Leadership is a key problem we have in this country. As solution to this, we need to embrace politics of purpose.”