The Executive Governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde has expressed delight at the conduct of the accreditation exercise of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) South West Zonal Congress ongoing at the Women and Children Development Initiative Foundation (WOCDIF), Osogbo, Osun State. The governor while speaking with journalists immediately after being accredited revealed that he had to present his Driver’s Licence before he was allowed into the venue of the congress. Reason for this he explained was to prevent ghost workers whose presence they were watching out for at the venue of the congress. The Oyo State Governor also maintained that despite the fact that the accreditation exercise started late, it was better, than for it to be rushed through. In his words, “Accreditation is starting two hours behind schedule but I feel it is better for it to be late and thorough than for it to be rushed through.” While stressing the importance of the zonal congress on the party, the governor noted that its outcome has far reaching effects on the party at the national level. “This is a zonal congress but it has ramifications for the party at the national level. “If we get it right in the South West, then we know that the future will be bright for the Peoples Democratic Party at the national level. “This is not just an election for zonal officials but we are here to put in our best and they will in turn represent us at the national level”, he added. Earlier, the Chairman of the PDP South West Zonal Congress Electoral/Congress Committee, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State represented by his deputy, Dr. Benson Adounu had stated during the display of sensitive electoral materials that there were 743 delegates that have been scheduled to vote in the exercise that will form the process that will usher in new set of Zonal Executives for the party at the South West. As at press time, DAILY POST reports that the few delegates who have showed up included the former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, member House of Representatives representing Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency, Oluwole Oke and a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Mrs. Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele and the deputy governor of Oyo State, Engineer Raufu Aderemi Olaniyan.