Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The management of Greenfield University in Kaduna State yesterday called on the Nigerian government and people of goodwill to come to their aid in rescuing the kidnapped students of the university. This was contained in a statement signed by its Registrar, Bashir Muhammad. 2. Unknown gunmen on Saturday, attacked the country home of Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, razed down buildings and vehicles as two security officers also lost their lives. The State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Ikeowo Godson Orlando confirmed the incident. 3. A joint security operation conducted in Imo State on Saturday killed a suspected militia commander of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) popularly known as “Ikonso” and six other operatives at the headquarters of the group in Awomama village in Oru East Local Government Area. 4. Bola Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, on Saturday urged Nigerians to unite in the fight against bandits and terrorists. He made the call after being awarded an honorary doctorate degree by the Management by the Federal University of Agriculture in Makurdi, Benue State. 5. Following the high level of insecurity in Nigeria, Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka yesterday urged President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to seek help and stop playing with human lives in the country. Soyinka stated this in a statement released on Saturday. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday condemned the killing of three students kidnapped from Greenfield University, Kaduna State. In a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, Buhari described the students as bright youngsters, who were cut down by evil people in their prime. 7. The National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), a faction led by Chief Edozie Njoku has fixed June 25, 2021, for the Anambra State governorship primary election of the party. 8. Late Afenifere spokesman, Yinka Odumakin was buried at his Moro home town in Osun State on Saturday amid tears by family members and friends and outpouring of tributes by associates, including top government officials. 9. A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara, has said that with the intractable security challenge in Nigeria, some parts of the country are fast becoming a hotbed of instability. He spoke at the 10th convocation of Achievers University, Owo, Ondo State. 10. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday confirmed the killing of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), Commander. IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, in a statement said they were unhappy over the incident.