The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, on Saturday inaugurated an anti-corruption and transparency unit at the federal Polytechnic Ukana, Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The ICPC Resident Commissioner in the State, Mr. Shola Shodipo at the event, commended the polytechnic for embracing the idea of establishing an Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit in the institution, noting that the exercise further confirmed the readiness of the Federal Polytechnic to partner ICPC in the fight against corruption in the country. Presenting a lecture on “Preliminary Investigation” Shodipo said the fight against corruption in Nigeria cannot be left for an individual or institution stressing that every responsible Nigerian must join the fight to salvage the country. The ICPC Commissioner explained that ACTU was an initiative of the Federal Government aimed at discouraging and exposing corrupt practices as well as entrenching transparency in public service adding that the anti-corruption war championed by ICPC has led to the shutting down of illegally run tertiary institutions in the country, among others While congratulating members of the unit for being found worthy to serve, he implored them not to use their position to witch-hunt, but rather to work closely with the management of the polytechnic, to the promotion of discipline and accountability. “Let me congratulate members of the unit who have been found worthy to serve. I implore you not to use your position to witchhunt anyone but rather work with the management of the polytechnic, to ensure discipline and accountability,” he said. Also Speaking, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr. Uduak S. Ukekpe, expressed delight at the establishment of ACTU in the institution, and particularly commended the effort of the ICPC in ensuring that corruption is reduced to the barest minimum in the society since it cannot be totally eradicated. He charged the anti-corruption volunteers to keep an eagle eye on the administrative and academic activities in the school. He said the polytechnic under his watch has zero tolerance for corrupt practices which included: examination malpractices, extortion of money from students,sex for grades and mismanagement of resources recalling that those found wanting in character had in time past been duly sanctioned. Responding, the Chairperson of ACTU, Federal Polytechnic, Ukana, Dr. Mercy Ebong, pledged the readiness of members to give in their best in the task of ensuring transparency in the running of the polytechnic.