About 515 aspirants have purchased forms on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, to contest the chairmanship and councillorship positions in the forthcoming local government election in Kaduna State. The Secretary of the party, Alhaji Ibrahim Wusono, while explaining the preparation of the party in the coming local government election in the state, said 63 and 452 persons have shown interest in the positions of the chairmen and councillors respectively in the state. He explained, “Not fewer than 63 forms were sold to party members vying for the position of chairmanship across the 23 Local Government Areas, while 452 were sold for councillorship aspirants across the 255 wards of Kaduna State.” He further explained, “In most of the wards, primary elections will be conducted except if they decide to resolve within themselves. We as party leaders have no right to disqualify anybody from exercising their constitutional right. Anybody who wishes to contest is free to do so. Their forms have been submitted two days ago and the screening is ongoing. We will make their names available to the public after the screening and party primary conducted, so that anybody who has any reservation regarding their educational qualification or character, can speak out before time,” he noted. The Secretary appealed to members of the political party to vote the right candidates during the primary elections, assuring that the quality of candidates produced determines the outcome of any election. He enjoined the people of Kaduna State to come out and vote for PDP, saying that the people are crying due to the failure of APC government to tackle insecurity and the only solution is to choose the right leaders who can represent them effectively at all levels. He observed, “People are crying for what is happening in the state and the country at large. People in the village are not sleeping in their homes, rather in the bush and come back home in the morning because of the fear of bandits. People in the town no longer go to the market because of demolition from the side of government. Workers are being sacked or retrenched, nobody is at ease.” Alhaji Ibrahim Wusono said all these are happening because the people lack good leaders and the government of APC has failed, saying that it is time for them to find solution to all these things that are happenings and one of the ways is to vote for PDP and experience restoration in all spheres of life. Recall that the Local Government Election has been slated to hold June 5th, 2021 across all the 23 Local Government Areas of Kaduna State.