Sources say heaps of files in various courts in Cross River State have been left unattended due to a strike action embarked upon by members of the Joint Union of Staff Union (JUSUN). Police cells and correction centres in Cross River State are reportedly congested as suspects are not being released on bail by the order of courts. Speaking with DAILY POST, Ntufam MBA Ekpezu Ukweni, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) lamented the non granting of financial autonomy to the judiciary, saying he was in support of the strike. “I know that some of the cases were billed for judgment and date fell within this striking period, invariably it has extended the evil days of some litigants and brought sadness to some litigants who would have carried out the execution of their judgments within this striking period. “Also Police cells and prisons are already congested and human rights and freedom badly infringed upon. Ntufam accused state governors of being responsible for the strike. “The Governors are not doing well by failing to grant autonomy to the judiciary. “The money meant for the executive arm is enough for them to work with and run the states conveniently and loot the leftover as usual. Buhari had since 2020 made executive order 10, I don’t think the implementation should be a problem. “He should direct the minister of finance and the accountant general of the federation to credit the account of the judiciary with money meant for it in all the States judiciary account. “If the governors are aggrieved let then proceed to court against Mr president. I thought that the governors will be willing to put down their names in the golden pen by immediately allowing autonomy since the majority of them are already doing their second term and they will have nothing to lose as far as I’m concerned. “Let the judiciary be resolute this time if the judiciary autonomy is not achieved now, they should forget it. “Judiciary autonomy is a constitutional matter there is no room for bargaining except the constitution is amended to that effect, which I know is not possible because the proponents of judiciary autonomy are over 98% in this country. “Even though the strike is affecting lawyers and litigants, let it be provided they achieve the judiciary autonomy I’m OK” Ntufam Ukweni reiterated