The Kaduna State government has confirmed the attack on Haske Baptist church at Manini Tasha village, Kuriga Ward of Chikun local of Kaduna State by gunmen. Mr, Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday, said a Medical Doctor, Zechariah Dogonyaro was killed while four other worshipers were Kidnapped. Mr. Aruwan said the incident was reported to the incident to government at about 9:30am on Sunday. “Security agencies reported to the Government that armed bandits attacked congregants at Haske Baptist Church, Manini, about 9:30 am, and killed a worshipper, Dr Zechariah Dogonyaro.” “According to the report, about four worshippers were abducted from the church. “One resident, Shehu Mainika was injured in the general area by the bandits. ” The statement said “In another report received from security agencies, armed bandits invaded Bagoma village, Birnin Gwari LGA and killed six persons, listed as Bala Gwamna, Kasage Ali, Mai Jakki, Makeri Kugu, Haruna Kawu, Ali Agaji “One person, Salisu Gwamna, older brother of the deceased Bala Gwamna, was injured in the attack. “Also reported was an attack by armed bandits at Amfu village in Kachia LGA, in which one Mrs Rahila Dauda was shot dead. “Finally, the partially burnt corpse of a seven-year-old, Abubakar Sarki Musa was found in an uncompleted building in Hayin Danmani area, Rigasa, Igabi LGA. “One Saddique Umar, an 18-year-old resident of the area, confessed to killing him, after luring the boy into the deserted building in a bid to steal a phone placed in his possession. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai roundly denounced the attack on the church in Chikun LGA as a shocking act of depraved persons far-removed from humanity. “The Governor added that attacking innocent worshipers who were exercising their natural and lawful right to assemble in worship, represented the worst kind of evil. “The Governor sent heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and the Haske Baptist Church. “The Governor prayed for the repose of the souls of the slain in all the attacks. He also wished the injured victim a speedy recovery. ” The statement said