The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, is saddened over the unfortunate passage of Yinka Odumakin. The late Odumakin was a Rights Activist and the spokesman of the apex Yoruba socio-cultural body, Afenifere until his demise Odumakin died on Saturday after he had reportedly recovered from COVID-19. Reacting to the demise of the Afenifere spokesman, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, in a statement by its Secretary-General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro and made available to DAILY POST on Saturday evening, said the late Yinka Odumakin was a true believer of restructuring, and has as well, sacrificed a lot in deepening the nation’s democracy through his criticisms of government’s draconian policies. The highest Igbo group further said it is saddened that Yinka Odumakin died at a time the country is in search of solutions to its teething problems, ranging from insecurity to a dwindling economy. Ohanaeze urged the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government to adopt some of the laudable ideas of Odumakin in solving the current myriad of challenges ravaging the country. The socio-cultural organization said the Afenifere chieftain would be greatly missed for his patriotism, forthrightness and doggedness in the current fight for a true and united Nigeria devoid of ethnic sentiments. Ohanaeze Ndigbo, in the statement, however, condoled with Odumakin’s family, Afenifere and the Yoruba nation at large on the sudden death of Yinka, praying the Almighty God to grant his soul eternal rest. Also, mourning the unfortunate demise of Yinka Odumakin, the Chief Whip of the Senate, and Former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Kalu, expressed sadness over the passing of the prominent activist and spokesperson of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere. Extolling the virtues of the strong advocate of democracy, Kalu stressed that Odumakin contributed to the enthronement and sustenance of democracy in Nigeria, adding that he will be remembered for his worthy legacies. The former Governor, while conveying his sincere condolences to the wife of the deceased, Dr. Josephine Odumakin and the Afenifere group, called on the Odumakin family to take solace in the fact that the deceased lived a life dedicated to the service of mankind. In a statement on Saturday, Senator Kalu said, “I received with shock, the painful news of the demise of the spokesperson of Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere and renowned activist, Dr. Yinka Odumakin. “The late Odumakin was bold, courageous, selfless, patriotic and fearless and as such, these attributes made him a notable and respected figure in his endeavours. “He played key roles in the socio-political development of Nigeria, especially as a strong advocate of a fair and just society. “His good deeds will continue to speak for him”. The former Governor, who prayed for the repose of Odumakin’s soul, urged the deceased’s family to uphold the outstanding qualities of the late activist.