Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Federal Government yesterday, vowed to invoke labour laws on the nation’s doctors who are currently on strike. Minister of Labour and Employment, Christ Ngige said he would have another meeting with the doctors on Thursday, after which he would consider the ”no work, no pay” option. 2. The Boko Haram insurgents, yesterday released a video claiming responsibility for the missing Jet of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). However, the management of NAF, has dismissed the claim, stating that the jet seen in the video looks different from theirs. 3. The Zamfara State Governor, Bello Mohammed Matawalle on Friday, said that over N900 million was paid to bandits in eight years by the state government. Governor Matawalle spoke through his Information Commissioner, Ibrahim Magaji Dosara. 4. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Igbo National Council (INC) and the traditional institutions in the South-East yesterday vowed that the Igbo would defend their homeland and flush out murderous herders from the South-East. The groups made the vow while reacting to the recent attack by herdsmen in some parts of Enugu and Ebonyi States. 5. Boko Haram terrorists were killed when the Police and Army repelled an assault on a convoy of some top Borno government officials. Commissioners for Justice – Kakashehu Lawal; Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Resettlement – Mustapha Gubio, and Local Government and Emirates – Sugun Mai-Mele were in the attacked convoy. 6. Lagos lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN) yesterday dismissed the United States’ report on the alleged shooting at the Lekki Toll Plaza last October as prejudicial, unreliable and contradictory. In a statement on Friday, Falana said the US government was only attempting to cover up. 7. Police in Ebonyi State yesterday rescued the Village Head of Oshiagu Amia-Ningbo, Ningbo Community in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the State, Mr John Nnaji, and four others who were abducted on Thursday by gunmen in military uniform. Ebonyi State Police spokesperson, Loveth Odah, confirmed the rescue in a statement on Friday. 8. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, maybe under serious political pressure to arrest Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho, for calling for the secession of the Yoruba from Nigeria. In a statement by his media aide yesterday, Igboho said he turned down an invitation from the IGP on Thursday. 9. A section of another market at Funtua, the commercial nerve of Katsina State was yesterday razed by fire in the early hours of Friday, destroying property worth millions of Naira. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC on Friday night, confirmed 66 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 9 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of recorded cases in the country to 163,063.