The Oyo State Police command on Monday said that it has arrested no fewer than three suspected armed robbers. The suspects, according to the Spokesman of the State Police command, Mr Adewale Osifeso, have been terrorising residents of Ogbomoso geo-political zone of the State. Osifeso in a statement made available to DAILY POST, noted that the suspects who specialized in armed robberies have been disposing motorists and passengers of their valuables along Oolo expressway, Ikoyi-Ile. He disclosed that the trio of Mohammed Ishaku ‘m’, Abubakar Isah ‘m’ and Mohammed Bawa ‘m’ were arrested on Saturday. Items found in possession of the suspects include, three cutlass, eleven different handsets and cash sum of ten thousand, one hundred and forty naira only (#10,140). Other items found in possession of the suspects are; one MP 3, one touch light, one Bintu Sudan perfume, two caps, one used premier soap, two fire lighters, one computer wrist watch, one eyes glass and two handset batteries. Osifeso said, “The criminal hunting net of Oyo State Police Command has caught up with the trio of Mohammed Ishaku ‘m’, Abubakar Isah ‘m’ and Mohammed Bawa ‘m’ suspected robbers, alleged to be disposing motorists and passengers of their valuables along Oolo expressway, Ikoyi-Ile. “The arrest was effected on 24th April, 2021 at about 0900hrs, upon the receipt of credible and timely information and swift response of the tactical team attached to Ikoyi-Ile Division to the scene of crime. “Upon arrest, suspects were found in possession of the following items (1) Three cutlass, (2) Eleven different handsets, (3) Cash sum of Ten thousand, one hundred and forty naira only (#10,140), (4) One MP 3, (5) One touch light, (6) One Bintu Sudan perfume, (7) Two caps, (8) One used premier soap, (9) Two fire lighters, (10) One Computer wrist watch, (11) One eyes glass and (12) Two handset batteries. “While investigation is still in progress, it is worthy of note that one Tunde Kazeem ‘m’ who was among the victims of the robbery incident is presently on admission at Bowen Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso, where he is receiving treatment. Subsequent development will be communicated with the unfolding of events. “The Commissioner of Police CP Ngozi Onadeko fdc, wishes to use this medium to dissuade the good people of Oyo State from spreading inciting and false stories that can heat up the polity. To this end, members of the public are advised to be uneconomical with supporting the Police as regards sharing of timely and credible information, instrumental to the birthing of a crime free State enjoyable by all.”