Facts have emerged on how some gunmen suspected to be kidnappers stormed Ibadan and other major cities in Oyo State to kidnap no fewer than fifteen (15) people. DAILY POST reports that no fewer than fifteen (15) residents of the state have been kidnapped in the last one month. Our correspondent recalls that the victims were kidnapped at different locations in Ibadan and other cities, including Fiditi town. Majority of those kidnapped were abducted in Oluyole local government area in Ibadan, which falls under the Oyo Central District currently represented by Senator Teslim Folarin (APC). Oluyole Federal Constituency is currently being represented by Hon. Tolulope Akande-Sadipe (APC). DAILY POST gathered that though some of the kidnapped victims had been released, they were, however, freed by the abductors after their families paid millions of naira as ransom. Among those who were kidnapped in the last one month are two bankers, a palm wine taper and another resident. The four people were kidnapped on Monday, 15th March 2021 along the Ijebu-Ode/ Ibadan Road on Monday 15th March. They were released after a sum of five million naira (N5m) was allegedly paid to the kidnappers. On Wednesday, 17th March, some gunmen stormed a farm in Fiditi in Afijio local government area and kidnapped a security guard. DAILY POST gathered that one person was also killed during the invasion of the farm. DAILY POST investigation also revealed that three people who are farmers were kidnapped at Sanyo and Soka area within Oluyole local government area on March 29th 2021. The three people included a couple and another farmer. The trio were kidnapped while working on their farms. Similarly, four people among whom are three workers of a Quarry site and another resident were also kidnapped on Tuesday, 6th April, 2021. Gunmen kidnapped the four people among whom were three workers of Megabolex Quarry site, Idi Ayunre area in Oluyole local government area. The victims were blocked at about 4:30 pm when they were coming out of the site. They were later released after some millions of naira had been paid as ransom. Our correspondent also learnt that three women among whom are a female soldier and two other women were kidnapped on Monday, 12th April at Onipe village, along the Ijebu-Ode/ Ibadan Road in Oluyole local government area. The victims of the latest abduction were identified as Mrs Okeowo, Mrs Abosede Adebayo and Mrs Bola Ogunrinde. DAILY POST learnt that the gunmen emerged from the bush around at about 8:20 a.m. and shot sporadically. They later abducted the three women and took them to an unknown destination. Mrs Ogunrinde who is said to be a soldier was kidnapped while driving a Toyota RAV-4, with registration number AGL 66 FY. It was gathered that some of the residents of the area later reported the incident at Idi Ayunre Division at about 10a.m on that fateful day. DAILY POST gathered on Thursday that the three people were yet to be released by the kidnappers as of the time of filing this report. Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, DSP Adewale Osifeso, while reacting to the various kidnap cases in the state, said that a combined team of policemen with local vigilantes and hunters under the supervision of the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, ACP Gbenga Ojo, had embarked on a tactical sweep of the forests in the state. He added that the aim was to destabilize criminal operations, establish police presence, rescue abductees and apprehend the abductors. Osifeso, in a statement obtained by DAILY POST on Thursday said, “The attention of the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Ngozi Onadeko has been drawn to the unfortunate abduction incidents experienced along Idi Ayunre axis of Oluyole Local Government Area in Ibadan, Oyo State. “Consequent upon this, a combined team of Intelligence, Operational and Tactical assets in concert with local vigilantes and hunters under the supervision of the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, ACP Gbenga Ojo, embarked on a tactical sweep of the forest aimed at destabilizing criminal operations, establishing Police presence, rescuing abductees and apprehending the abductors. “CP Onadeko wishes to use this medium to state that security of lives and properties still remains the number one priority of the Oyo State Police Command and hence unequivocally reaffirm its commitment towards ensuring that commuters plying the axis, residence and the good people of the state as a whole, move about their daily activities without any fear of molestation or harassment. “The Commissioner of police, therefore, enjoins the people of Oyo State not to relent in sharing credible and timely information with the police for effective discharge of its duties.”