The Academic Board of the Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja has approved the expulsion of four students over issues bordering on examination misconduct and other social vices. The directive to expel the students was contained in a statement issued to DAILY POST by the institution’s Head of Public Relations and Protocol Unit, Uredo Omale on Thursday The expulsion of the students according to the statement was part of far-reaching decisions made at the Board’s meeting held at the institution’s Main Campus in Lokoja. The students expelled for examination malpractice include Aliu Abdulrahman, an ND I student of Science and Laboratory Technology (2019/ND/SLT/216), Shaibu Danjuma (HND I), Graphic Department (2018/HND/IDD/011) and Hadiza Abubakar (2018/HND/CPS/183), an HND II student of Computer Science Department. Another student, Abudulmalik Wahab of the Mechanical Engineering Department (2018/ND/ME/043 was also expelled and with an added clause of never to be offered admission into the institution, for being in possession of a dangerous weapon and evidence of involvement in cultism. Durojaiye Helen Taiye, an HND II student of Industrial Design (2018/HND/IDD/007) was found with extraneous materials not related to the particular examination inscribed on her palms and was rusticated for one semester. The Board, Chaired by the Rector, Dr Salisu Ogbo Usman, also approved the First Semester result for the 2019/2020 Academic Session. The Rector, who appreciated the committees on examination misconduct for the thorough job done, said the Polytechnic would not condone any act capable of bringing it to disrepute. He appealed to students to always be on the side of the law. He also expressed satisfaction with the successful end of the Computer Based Examinations for General Studies Courses just as he commended the committee on E-Examination for a job well done. Dr Usman further explained that the postponement of the SUG Elections, Students’ Week and NAKOSS elections till the next session was part of plans to ensure adequate security of lives and properties on campus.