The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the appearance of anti-Buhari graffiti in some major cities in the country is a demonstration of public resentment to the misrule of the Buhari Presidency. This was contained in a statement on Thursday. The statement which was issued by Kola Ologbondiyan, the National Publicity Secretary of the party said it appears Nigerians have lost hope in President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC), given the devastation, violence, poverty and economic hardship that has enveloped the country under their watch. “The party asserts that the graffiti which demands that “Buhari Must Go”, is a loud remonstration against the impunity, divineness, high level incompetence, massive corruption as high-level insensitivity of the APC and its administration to the sorry situation they have plunged our dear nation.” According to the statement, “The Nigerian youths, by the graffiti, are demonstrating against the failure of President Buhari and the APC to take decisive steps to address the incessant mass killings, high-level unemployment, poverty and economic hardship that their administration has foisted on our country. “The graffiti is also an open aversion to the looting of over N15 trillion by APC leaders at the time our nation is battling with 33% unemployment rate; at a time over 40 million Nigerian have lost their means of livelihood due to APC misrule and where most families cannot afford the basic necessities of life.” The PDP stressed that “It is an open aversion to the reported looting of trillions of naira meant for the purchase of arms to secure our nation, at a time terrorists, bandits and kidnappers are having a field day ravaging our communities and killing our compatriots. “Moreover, the use of political graffiti by citizens is a global practice to express themselves, particularly in a democratic setting. “It is, therefore, a mark of intolerance, disdain and insensitivity to the plight of the people that instead of accepting and taking steps to address their anxieties, the APC chose to unleash their thugs to flog and dehumanize Nigerian citizens exercising their right to freedom of expression, as witnessed in Kogi State. “The PDP rejects the pedestrian allegations of trespass as a basis for the attack on the youths, as anybody aggrieved in the direction being claimed, have the court as a lawful channel for redress. ” “The PDP recalls how in 2014, President Buhari, then as Presidential candidate of the APC, led other leaders of his party to take to the streets and disrupted public activities in the exercise of such freedom and nobody hired thugs to attack or flog them in public. “While urging Nigerians to remain calm despite these provocations, the PDP cautions the APC to note that its resort to suppression of freedom of expression cannot obliterate the fact that the people are only waiting for the next general election to flog them with their votes.” The statement further added