The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Kaduna State chapter, has hailed the appointment of DIG Usman Alkali Baba as the new acting Inspector-General of Police. The chairman, CAN, Kaduna State chapter, Rev. John Joseph Hayab, in a statement issued Wednesday, said, “Following President Muhammadu Buhari appointment of DIG Usman Alkali Baba as the acting Inspector -General of Police, the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Kaduna state chapter, rejoices with the new IGP.” The CAN, Kaduna state chapter, according to the statement, enjoined all Nigerians irrespective of any difference to support the new IGP to take the country off the present security challenges. The statement explained that the appointment of Usman Alkali Baba at the helms of affairs of Police should be seen by Nigerians as a welcome development in attempt to free Nigeria from the insecurity it is known with for some times. The statement observed, “The acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has worked in different capacities in Kaduna state. His contributions of maintaining peace in the state cannot easily be forgotten, hence his sincerity, honesty and wealth of experience to ensure a peaceful society is still very fresh in our minds.” Rev. Hayab noted that the appointment of IGP Usman Alkali Baba came at a good time, considering that Nigerians needed a man, who has the vision and a road map towards bringing an end the various challenges and frustrations that the country had gone through. According to the statement, “Having known the acting IGP Usman Alkali Baba for some years, with a determination to bring sanity to the human race, l call on Nigerians to cooperate with the new IGP so that together we will realise peace in the land once more.” Hayab explained that the new IGP “no doubt, needs Nigerians’ sincere advice, suggestions and prayers on the way forward for a free society that is devoid of any form of criminality. “He is a man that has a listening ear to any constructive advice, hence, Nigerians should be rest assured that their sincere observations on the way forward towards a peaceful society will be highly looked into by the new IGP. “While we welcome the acting IGP Usman Alkali Baba, let us all give him all the support and the advice that is needed for the police under his leadership to succeed.”