The Niger State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has reiterated its stance on the suspension of former Governor Muazu Babangida Aliyu, for allegedly working to ensure former President Goodluck Jonathan lost in the 2015 presidential elections in the state. This was the position of party’s leaders and faithful in the three senatorial districts of the state. They reaffirmed their support for the suspension of Aliyu through their spokesman, Mallam Yahaya Mohammed Usman. Usman said the PDP in Niger was in support of the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, who stated that Aliyu owes the PDP an apology for admitting that he undermined the party in 2015 elections. “We have been vindicated, we had told Nigerians and indeed Nigerlites that Aliyu betrayed us and worked for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “He betrayed the party, President Goodluck Jonathan and our governorship candidate, Alhaji Umar Nasko. We have said it and we heard it that he donated funds to the opposition party,” the PDP spokesman said. It would be recalled that Governor Wike on a live interview on African Independent Television (AIT) monitored by DAILY POST, stated that, “So we were campaigning not knowing you (Aliyu) were undermining us, and then you also ran for the senate in that election and lost? Aliyu Babangida owes an apology to the PDP.” Earlier this week, Aliyu had admitted in a statement that the 19 Northern Governors worked against former President Goodluck Jonathan’s re-election in 2015, saying, “there was an agreement with Jonathan to serve only one term which Jonathan reneged.” Jonathan, however, replied to Dr. Aliyu’s claims, while describing him (Aliyu) as a pathological liar and a backstabber, Meanwhile, former governors Jonah Jang and Sule Lamido have also denied knowledge of such an agreement cited by Aliyu in his statement. The state party’s leaders and faithful, according to the spokesperson, have reaffirmed the promotion of former Deputy Governor, Shem Nuhu Zagbayi as new leader for Aliyu’s Zone (Niger East Senatorial District).