The Plateau State Internal Revenue Service (PSIRS) has warned that any revenue collector found mounting roadblocks in the state would be sanctioned. The state government also said culprits who violate the rule will be imprisoned upon conviction under the new revenue law. The revenue agency also explained that the new law would not only enhance the state’s internally generated revenue but would also ensure transparency and accountability in all forms of revenue collection. Chairman of PSIRS Dashe Dasogot gave the warning in Jos during the 2021 public sector strategic engagement on taxation organized by the agency in collaboration with a marketing consulting firm, Unimark Limited. He said “Under the new law, it is now illegal for anybody, MDA or Local Government to mount a roadblock to collect any revenue due to it. “Also, anybody who aids, abets, counsels or induces another person to commit an offence under the tax law, is liable on conviction to a fine equivalent to 400 percent of the sum in question. “It is our desire that this drive for improved revenue generation will not be left to the government alone but that as stakeholders, the individuals and organizations in the private sector must be seen to also take the lead in ensuring its success.” He, however, charged chairmen of the 17 local government councils and MDAs to put more efforts into generating revenue internally to ensure that government plans and projects are executed for the benefit of the people. Chairman of the occasion and Vice-Chancellor of the Plateau State University, Professor Yohanna Izam added that the time has come for the state to diversify its economy for optimum performance and called on the citizens to key into government revenue strategies to enable it to succeed. Meanwhile, an economist, Samuel Wakdok while delivering a keynote address at the event with the theme, “Latent opportunities for MDAs and Local Governments in Plateau State to Catalyze & Deliver Optimal Revenue Yield” said if Plateau State is determined to raise its internally generated revenue to a level that can sustain development, it must ensure an efficient tax management system with an innovative and customer-centric approach and guarantee that people, businesses and institutions, pay the right taxes and charges at the right time using the right mechanism to yield positive results.
According to him, “BudgIT’s IGR at the state level for 2020 puts Plateau State at 16th/37 with N19.122B, that is N1.6B monthly. To catch up with No. 5, Kaduna State’s N50.768B needs an additional N31.664bn or IGR of N4.23bn monthly. “To achieve our N5bn monthly target and rake in N60bn annually, we will have to grow our annual IGR collections by an additional N40.878bn. Plateau State Internal Revenue Service have worked assiduously to produce the new tax template. “After seeing how every sector is covered, it makes the target of N5 billion monthly internally generated revenue realistic. “But as we always say in Nigeria, ‘we have good policies, the problem is implementation’. The successful implementation of the Plateau State Revenue (Consolidation) Law 2020 is why we are here today. “Our over-reliance on oil revenue or federal allocation in the face of dwindling oil revenues is a likely source of tragedy in our case. “The more tax people pay or the more people who pay tax, the higher the standards, accountability and transparency they will demand from the government and her institutions”, he maintained.
“We must ensure an efficient tax management system with an innovative and customer-centric approach. “We must guarantee that our people, businesses and institutions, pay the right taxes and charges at the right time using the right mechanism to yield positive results. He said to achieve sustainable revenue in the state, there must be attitudinal change, collective responsibility to achieve the IGR needed to make the state viable.