The zonal police headquarters, zone 13 Ukpo, Anambra State has confirmed that its facility was on Monday morning attacked by unknown gunmen. DAILY POST had earlier reported that a building in the headquarters was burnt by the attackers, including vehicles parked around the premises of the headquarters. DSP Nkeiruka Nwode, Zonal Public Relations Officer in a press release confirmed this, saying that the attackers were instantly repelled, and some of their arms seized. She said, “Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force attached to Zone-13 Headquarters, Ukpo, Anambra State have successfully repelled an attack on the zonal headquarters by criminal elements in the early hours of today, 19th April, 2021. “The attackers, who came in their numbers, shooting sporadically in order to gain access to the facility, were repelled by the police personnel on duty who showed profound gallantry in the face of the seemingly overwhelming attack. “Following the inability of the attackers to access the facility, they threw petrol bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) on vehicles within the periphery of the Headquarters.” She said one of the criminals was neutralized during the exchange of gunfire between the police and the attackers while many of the gang members escaped with gunshots injuries. She said, “One L7A2 General-Purpose Machine Gun (GPMG), Ninety-two rounds of 7.62mm live ammunition, one locally-made smoke pistol and an axe were recovered by the Police. Regrettably, two police operatives sustained gunshot injuries and are presently receiving treatment. She also quoted the Commissioner of Police, Anambra State Police Command, CP Kuryas Monday, who is also standing in for the Zonal Assistant Inspector General of Police as commending the Police operatives for putting up a strong resistance against the attackers. “The CP, supported by other senior officers from Zone-13 Headquarters and the State Command, is personally leading a special operation aimed at tracing, identifying and arresting the perpetrators and bring them to book. “He also called on proprietors of private and public (including unorthodox) medical facilities in and around Anambra State to admit, but report anyone found seeking medical attention for bullet wounds and related injuries to the nearest police station.” The CP urged the people of the state to be steadfast and go about their lawful duties, saying that the police will continually provide them with security.