An Igbo sociopolitical organization, World Igbo Peoples Assembly WIPAS, has urged Southeast governors to ensure the new regional security outfit, EBUBEAGU does not confront the IPOB’s Eastern Security Network ESN, but rather complement it to secure the East The group claims the call became necessary given the alleged determination of killer herdsmen to wipe out the people of the East and take over their land. DAILY POST reported that the governors during a meeting in Owerri resolved to set up a security network named ‘EBUBEAGU’. Reacting, WIPAS, in a statement by its Board of Trustees BoT, Chairman, Mazi Chuks Ibegbu asked the Governors to ensure personnel of the regional security outfit are well trained, fearless and bold to confront and wipe out killer herdsmen and bandits of any sort from Eastern forests. The group also asked the Eastern Security Network ESN, not to feel threatened by the new outfit but to go on to flush out and apprehend the killers of innocent men and women at Enugu and Abakiliki and ensure justice is done. The Igbo Assembly insisted that the perpetrators of the attack on men and women in Ebonyi must be brought to justice. The WIPAS warned some elements who always issue quit notice to their fellow Nigerians to stop it immediately in their own interest, noting that such actions are a threat to Nigeria. “If we want Nigeria to be dissolved we should come to a roundtable and agree on the modalities rather than this constant quit notices especially from the North”. The group assured Nigerians that they are free to live and do their businesses in the East except for killer herdsmen and bandits who must be decimated. The WIPAS accused the Nigerian army and security forces of masterminding the radicalization of IPOB and pro-Biafra agitators by killing and maiming many of them in the past. “This is the same thing they did to the Boko Haram which radicalised them and led to the war in the North East which is costing the nation a lot in resources and men. “We are lucky the SHIITES in the North are not yet radicalised after the brutality by our army and killing on more than one thousand of them. “We have an anti-people army and security agents and that is why there is insecurity everywhere coupled with the insincerity of Nigeria and Northern leaders”.