The Akwa Ibom State police command said it has apprehended one David Ubong- an escapee of the recent prison break in Owerri Imo State. In a Statement signed by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Odiko Macdon on Friday, the suspect was arrested in Ibaka, Mbo local government area of the State on April, 6, 2021 and would be handed over to the correctional service in Imo State to face his jail term. He added that the arrest was made possible following a credible intelligence The statement in parts, “on 6/4/2021, personnel of Ikot Udota Division, relying on credible intelligence, apprehended one David Victor Ubong ‘m’ of Ibaka, Mbo L.G.A. “Suspect confessed to be one of the inmates who escaped from the Correctional Service in the recent jail break at Owerri, Imo State on 5/4/2021. Until his conviction, the suspect was a resident of Obinze in Owerri, Imo State. Suspect will be sent back to face his jail term.” The statement also noted that the Command had arrested three (3) suspects for kidnapping one Blessing Gift Ekpo and recovered the victim, as well as the ransom. “On 18th March, 2021 at about 10am, one Blessing Gift Ekpo ‘f’, 30yrs old of Ukana Ikot Akpantea village, Essien Udim L.G.A, a resident of Molyko-Buea, Republic of Cameroon was kidnapped on her way to Oron by Armed Sea Pirates. “A painstaking investigation led to the arrest of one Ezekiel Ogbodiye ‘m’, 33yrs of age, of Asamabiri village, Salga in Yenagoa, who collected the ransom, John Benimo ‘m’, 40yrs of age, of Okubebie, Salga, both in Bayelsa State, and Christian Bassey ‘m’, 21yrs of age of Ibiono Ibom L.G.A, a resident of Akpan Ikang Itak Edak fishing port, Oron L.G.A, who was the ransom negotiator. The sum of one million, two hundred and fifty thousand naira (N1, 250,000.00) was recovered from them. suspects will be charged to court. ‘On the security situation in Essien Udim L.G.A, the CP wish to inform the good people of Akwa Ibom State that successes have been recorded and that a mop up security operation is still ongoing in the affected area. Residents and environs are to remain calm and be security conscious as Security Agencies will continue to do their best to restore peace, law and order in the affected area and around the State,” the statement said.