Retired living and next of kin of late primary school teachers in Akwa Ibom State on Monday protested over the non-payment of their gratuities and pension by the state government. They accused the state government of being insincere in their promise to pay the entitlement today as announced. The Akwa Ibom State Government had on Friday in a statement promised to commence the payment of gratuities and pensions to the next of kin of the primary school teachers retirees on Monday which according to findings is yet to commence. But the group, ‘Coalition of families, Widows/Next of Kin and late primary School teachers’ in early hours of Monday carried placards in a peaceful protest to the government house to press home their demands. Some of the inscriptions on the placards read “we don’t want radio payment again; “government is not sincere about payment of our gratuities and pension among others.” The secretary of the group, Mr. Benjamin Benson, who spoke with journalists in Uyo, alleged that the government in a bid to stop the proposed protest, had gone on air to announce commencement of payment today (Monday), adding that the government was not sincere about the payment. According to him, “We embarked on this peaceful protest today because the government has failed to keep to its agreement on the payment of gratuities and pensions to both the living and next of kin of retired Primary School teachers. We are here in continued protest to the lingering issue. “We know that the information that came out on Friday from the state government about commencement of payment was not premeditated. “We met with the police and informed them about our planned protest last Thursday and we told them that our demands are simple, that between that Friday and Monday, failure to pay us that money will lead us to embark on a protest. And on Friday we got the information that the government will commence payment today(Monday), so we knew where that decision was coming from. Everyday they keep saying they are going to commence payment and nothing has been done. “Today we wanted to sleep here at the gate of the government house until they Pay. But we want to give the government the benefit of doubt.” The Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Ephraim Inyangeyen, who addressed the protesters, pleaded with them and promised that payment can only be guaranteed in the next 48 hours, that is on Wednesday.