Okezie Ikpeazu, the Governor of Abia State has officially performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of the Aba Leather And Garment Industrial Cluster and the Enyimba City Garment Industry all located at Umunneato, Umukalika in Obingwa Local Government Area. Speaking at the event, Governor Ikpeazu said Enyimba City Garment Industry, which is solely sponsored by his government would be completed this year while the Aba Leather and Garment Industrial Cluster being done in partnership with Total Value Integrated Services Nigeria Limited would equally be completed and commissioned before he leaves office. He said the city of Aba is a major contributor to Nigeria’s leather and garment production sector, hence the need to provide the needed ambience for the development of the can-do spirit of the artisans. Ikpeazu explained that since 2015, the strategy of his administration has been to deploy the advantages available in the economies of scale to make sure government provides common services and enable Abia artisans to scale up their manufacturing skills. The State Chief Executive directed the contractor to work in line with specifications and ensure proper things are done by creating a sustainable ecosystem to manage stormwater in the environment. He urged members of the host communities to continue to give their cooperation to enable the project to be realized accordingly. Governor Ikpeazu who expressed happiness that finally the state has provided a befitting place for the artisans in the leather and garment sub-sector assured that his government would provide everything needed to ensure that artisans in the state occupy their rightful place in the scheme of things. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Industry, Rev. Mba Eme said the journey which started in 2006 was gradually becoming a reality as the foundation laying ceremony has been performed. He disclosed that the cluster would contain 15, 000 shops while the Garment Factory will have a capacity of producing 1,500 garments of different kinds daily. “The cluster too will have such facilities as Fire Service Station, Police Station, Banks, Clinics, Toilets, CCTV Cameras, Standby Power Supply, among others, “Governor stated. According to him, Abia artisans would leverage on the industrial clusters to promote Made in Aba products. The Project developer, Chief Chris Simon of Total Value Integrated Services said that the Leather and Garment Cluster would accommodate leather and garment artisans in Ariaria and other parts of the State. He described the project which is a PPP arrangement between his company and Abia State Government as the first of its kind in the State.