Crown City, measuring over 300 hectares, is situated along the beautiful Ezu river in Amansea Awka, in Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State. The city is being developed by 4 CLANS Nigeria Limited, whose directors are the major drivers of Orange Island, Lekki, Lagos State. Crown City has three Estates namely: Orange Estate; Ubaka Estate, and Anambra Diaspora Estate. They will be developed to a state-of-the-art infrastructural ambience. The location is about 3 kilometers from the Enugu Onitsha express road, 5 minutes’ drive from the Nnamdi Azikiwe University back gate area in Ifite Awka, and approximately 20 minutes’ drive to the Alex Ekwueme square in Awka. Crown City can be both residential and commercial depending on your preference which gives you the chance to reap the benefits of an ever-growing real estate marked for private and commercial use. The developers have commenced: The 4km Ebenebe road from the Amansea junction of Onitsha/Enugu expressway to the Ebenebe bridge; The 3.5km road from the Ebenebe bridge through the estate to Mgbakwu; The 2.5km road from the Ifite road after UNIZIK back gate axis to the estate. They have also executed and received an irrevocable Power of Attorney from all the traditional land title holders and have registered this Power of Attorney at the land registry. Crown City offers an exclusive prime and premium 1000 plots of 500sqm, 650sqm and 1000sqms. The commercial value of each plot will surely increase by 100% and an assured constant upward review when the first phase of sights and service are completed. WHAT CAN YOU BUILD? 500sqm RESIDENTIAL PLOT: It consists of multi-level housing developments such as Condo apartments; 4 bedroom semi-detached; Duplexes, and 5 bedroom stand alone. 650sqm RESIDENTIAL PLOT: The medium density residential area will be allocated to single family homes like Twin duplex; 5 bedroom stand alone + pent house with swimming pool and mini garden; Luxury condos apartments. 1000sqm RESIDENTIAL PLOT: Has a limited number of exclusive premium mansion plots. It is a low density residential area with a block of luxury terraces houses; a mini mansion, a luxury 6 bedroom detached duplex.  Crown City boasts of internal road network with a standard drainage system, laid out fiber optic cables for home internet, central water plant, central sewage system, gas distribution pipeline, solar powered security lightening, motion lightening camera and police station. Others are shopping malls, hotels and restaurants, recreational center with sport and gym facilities, worship centers, schools, greenery and robust natural ambience, well maintained river front to serve as part of recreational facilities, standard fire services, and refuse recycling plant. Crown City is marketed by Dynasty Designs Limited.
Website: www.crowncityestate.com Contact addresses:
LAGOS: 22, Dr. Omon Ebhomenye street, Lekki Phase 1. RIVERS: 23, Obagi street, GRA 1, Port Harcourt. ANAMBRA: 10, Ken Agumadu street, Ngozika Estate, Awka. Please call: +234 (0)8067549273, +234 (0)9027549273, +234 (0)7065262227.