The Federal Government has extended the National Identity Number, NIN-Sim linkage by one month. The Government also revealed that National Identity Number database has exceeded 51 million records. This was contained in a statement signed by Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, Director, Public Affairs​​​, Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, and Mr Kayode Adegoke, Head, Corporate Communications, National Identity Management Commission. According to the statement, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, chaired a meeting of the Ministerial Task Force on the NIN-SIM data linkage on Thursday where the decision was reached. The meeting was attended by key stakeholders, including the EVC/CEO of NCC, DG/CEO of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), among other stakeholders of the ministry and telecom industry. The approval was given to extend the period of the NIN-SIM linkage to the 6th of May, 2021 after request for extension was endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Based on the updates of the NIN-registration process, over 51 million people have been assigned NINs. There are many people, who have enrolled and are in the process of being assigned NINs. With each individual having an average of 3 to 4 SIMs, the total number of SIMs tied to NINs would be close to the total number of registered SIMs in the country. “The current number of monthly enrolments has increased significantly to about 2.6 million registrations. There has also been a remarkable increase in the number of enrolment centres across the country with about 3,800 centres available for enrolments. There are also many more new centres in the pipeline,” the statement disclosed. The Minister thanked Nigerians for being patienct and for complying with the government’s directive on the NIN-SIM registration exercise. Pantami said that the government was committed to taking decisions aimed at easing the pains of Nigerians with regard to issues related to NIN and SIM registration.