The 14 Premier League clubs left out of the newly-formed breakaway European Super League have announced they ‘vigorously reject’ the proposal. The clubs said they are exploring options to stop the new league. Manchester United, Manchester City, Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur, Chelsea and Liverpool on Sunday announced they had joined the new European Super League. The six Premier League side joined forces with the Spanish side, Barcelona, Real Madrid, Atletico Madrid and Italian giants, Juventus, Inter Milan, AC Milan to form a new European competition. The 14 Premier League clubs met on Tuesday to discuss their next move. In a statement after the meeting, the rest of the Premier League clubs called on the ‘Big Six’ to immediately withdraw their membership from the Super League. The EPL clubs warned they would seek to hold them to account if this plan progressed further. “The Premier League, alongside The FA, met with clubs today to discuss the immediate implications of the Super League proposal,” a statement read. “The 14 clubs at the meeting unanimously and vigorously rejected the plans for the competition. “The Premier League is considering all actions available to prevent it from progressing, as well as holding those shareholders involved to account under its rules. “The League will continue to work with key stakeholders including fan groups, Government, UEFA, The FA, EFL, PFA and LMA to protect the best interests of the game and call on those clubs involved in the proposed competition to cease their involvement immediately. “The Premier League would like to thank fans and all stakeholders for the support they have shown this week on this significant issue. “The reaction proves just how much our open pyramid and football community means to people.” FIFA, UEFA, FA, EFL, La Liga, Serie A, PFA, LMA have also condemned the move to set up the new European Super League which would abolish the Champions League and Europa League. Also, the British Prime minister, Boris Johnson and Prince Andrew have tackled the planners of the new league, vowing to do everything within their powers to stop it.