The Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christian Pilgrims Commission, NCPC, Rev. Yakubu Pam has lamented that Nigerians are living in the most troubling and challenging moment of their lives. Speaking to newsmen in Kaduna after a meeting of National Executive Council, NEC, of Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, 19 Northern states and Abuja, he explained that the meeting was to critically analyze the present security challenges bedevilling the country and Northern Nigeria in particular. He stated, “We have all agreed at the meeting to appeal to the federal, state governors and other stakeholders at the grassroots and particularly Northern Nigeria that they must at this time around go on practical assurance of ensuring peace, whereby, they will engage citizens in solving these problems facing the region.” He added that security personnel must be involved in solving the problems at all levels, pointing out that the challenges were unbearable to the people. He suggested, “Government must engage citizens in finding solutions to these problems.” Rev. Pam opined, “On the north, we have peculiar problems, fundamental issues that have rose to be the cause of these problems and one of it is lack of employment; the youths are roaming the streets, and we must address the issue of lack of employment. “There is lack of justice that is all over the place, criminals are seen over the place walking freely. We must rise up holistically and objectively to the occasion to be able to address the the issues. Community leaders must take responsibilities at this moment.” The Executive Secretary explained that “Nigerians must learn from other nations who have gone through all kinds of challenges like us”, citing Ruwanda that experienced genocide, ethnic wars, among others. “Let’s us stop this ugly situation and make u-turn in order to make Nigeria a great nation that is known to be with both human and natural resources that abound in the land,” he advised. On paying amnesty to kidnappers and bandits, Rev. Pam explained, “I don’t think that giving them amnesty will solve the problem. What will solve the problem is for our intelligence to be up and doing. When we have information of where these bad people are, l think Nigeria will survive. “When we are sincere in bringing them out, even if he is my son, he should face the wrath of the law, l think that will be very important to solving the security challenges of this country.” He added that when people are talking to giving amnesty to the kidnappers, “l believed that amnesty is not just something that should be given under the platform of just dashing out to people but amnesty should be something that come out when people show genuine repentance, when they show remorse that they regretted of what they are doing, but we shouldn’t go about with it as if it is a national case.” “Let them come by themselves and if they show up and government assesses it together with Nigerians and look at the situation, then we can arrive at that, but it shouldn’t be something that we should dash away without knowing the value of it,” Pam explained.