Chairman, Takum local government council of Taraba State, Shiban Tikari, narrowly escaped death early Saturday morning as armed militia opened fire on his vehicle. DAILY POST reports that the attack, which took place in Dogo-Gawa village of the council, however, led to the gruesome killing of his police orderly. The deceased policeman is of the 67 Mobile Police Squadron, located in the council. In another related development, police in Wukari council of the State were reported to have foiled kidnap attempt in Choku village of the council, with a heavy exchange of gunshots between them and the bandits. Takum and Wukari councils, located in the southern geopolitical zone of the State, have in recent time being under severe attacks. Confirming the attack, Tikari said the militias, in their numbers, launched attack on his convoy while on his way to Takum. He called for more redeployment of security personnel to the area. A senior police officer from the area, who also confirmed the incident to our correspondent, could not understand why hoodlums terrorizing the areas have decided to make police their targets. The police officer, who identified logistics as one of the challenges making it impossible for the hoodlums to be tracked down, urged the State government to adhere to its promise by collaborating with the force, especially in the areas of logistics. Also not comfortable with the acts of the hoodlums in Choku village of Wukari, the Council chairman, Daniel Adi said the attackers who stormed the community at about 3a.m, were repelled by the police. According to him “at about 3 a.m. while the police were on their duty post, unknown gunmen came around and started shooting sporadically. ” Displaying the exploded bullets, he said “It was just by the grace of God and the experience of the police that made it impossible for the bandits to succeed.” While applauding the police for their bravery act, he said government at all levels should as a matter of urgency, come to the aide of the council, by drafting more operatives to the area.