The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA has urged South-East Governors to incorporate the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB’s Eastern Security Network, ESN into its newly established security outfit Ebube Agu. DAILY POST recalls that the chairman of the South-East Governors Forum, Dave Umahi, on Sunday, announced the formation of a security network for the region to tackle its challenges. He had informed that Ebube Agu which will focus on rural areas will also monitor activities of vigilante groups in member states. In a statement on Monday, HURIWA, however, through its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko urged the governors to “find ways and means of incorporating the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and all other community vigilantes into the Ebube Agu concept to get the buy-in of the people. He urged the southeast governors to find a seamless operational strategy that will lead to cleaning out armed Fulani mercenaries causing chaos and security nightmares for communities in the South East. The group also asked the governors of the region to individually activate legislative frameworks in their state houses of assembly to make laws bringing into being the ‘Ebube Agu Security Network. The group also urged the governors to ban open grazing of livestock in the region to check the deliberate mass killings of Igbo farmers by armed Fulani herdsmen. “We hope these South-East governors understand the dynamics of setting up functional structures for the Ebube Agu Security Outfit. This is because for now, what these governors have done is to set up a “paper tiger” with a frightening baptismal name of ‘Ebube Agu’ but all the trappings and facilities expected of a physical Security Outfit are still existing in the rich imagination of Governors. “What are the States House of Assembly doing to show that the legislative frameworks for the regional Security Outfit and the ban on open grazing of livestock are put in place and then regional wide security enforcement team set up to enforce the laws”? HURIWA added.