The Bayelsa State Government and the indigenes of the Bilabiri community in Ekeremor Local Government Area of the State, have given different views on the death of a suspected militant leader identified as Frank Brake-Ere Seide also known as Sea Lion during the bloody dispute over the control the Community Development Committee (CDC) of the community. While the members of the newly installed Community Development Committee (CDC) described the death of Frank Brake-Ere Seide, as “self-inflicted “ due to his unprovoked shooting with some youths in the community, the Bayelsa Government through the office of the Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has condemned the killing, threatening to deal decisively with any individual or groups found culpable of fomenting trouble in the community. Speaking at separate meetings with representatives of Bilabiri community in Ekeremor and Ogboinbiri community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area on Sunday, the State Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, expressed displeasure over the acrimonious manner people jostle for community leadership. Senator Ewhrudjakpo, noted that reports of rising insecurity in Ekeremor and Southern Ijaw mainly due to community elections do not speak well of the two areas, urging stakeholders of the councils to work closely with the state government to bring what he described as an embarrassing and worrisome situation under control. But the indigenes of Bilabiri community, told DAILY POST, on Monday that the circumstances that led to the death of the militant leader was self-inflicted. “The bullets fired by the militant leader and his gang cut off the two legs of one of the boys. The leader of the boys also fired back and the deceased fell down.” DAILY POST gathered that the bloody clash, according to community leaders and youth leaders, was triggered following a series of threats and refusal by the former Executive of the CDC led by David Bazighe to vacate office at the expiration of their tenure in December, 2020 and their plea for one year extension turned down by the people of Bilabiri kingdom. It was also revealed that the deceased, Frank Brake-Ere Seide, was accused of triggering tension in the community after his kinsman from the same grandparent, St. Paul Wilson, was made the Acting Chairman of the Community Development Committee following a unanimous vote from the compound it was zoned to in the community. While supporters of the former Executive of the CDC led by David Bazighe accused the new executive and their supporters of supporting brigandage, others allege that the deceased and his loyalists have been terrorizing the community including the abduction of two chiefs and flogging them for their lack of support in the matter. Contacted on telephone, the Acting Chairman of the CDC, St. Paul Wilson told our correspondent that though they have met with the aides to the State Governor on Security to brief him on the development in Bilabiri community, “some claims made over the crux of the matter in Bilabiri were not true. The main issue is that the former Executive tenure expired and they are trying to intimidate everyone.”