The leadership of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has pledged its readiness to end the influx of criminals, irregular migrants and illegal mining in Osun as part of efforts to strengthen the security of lives and property in the state. The NIS also restated its commitment to partnering with the state to secure its borders by adequately screening all immigrants who may wish to travel out or come into the state. The assurances were given by the Assistant Comptroller General and Zonal Coordinator Zone ‘F’ of Nigeria Immigration Service, comprising Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti States, Mrs. Dora Amahian, during a courtesy visit to the Osun State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, in his office. Speaking during the visit, Amahian said in furtherance of its constitutional responsibilities, the agency was ready to scale up its services to ensure adequate monitoring of all immigrants, particularly foreigners visiting and residing in the state. She assured that the NIS would continue to strengthen its roles of regular investigation as regards proper data management and profiling of resident to ensure that immigrants in the state comply with the laws of the land. She lauded the establishment of multiethnic committees and other local security outfits in Osun which she noted had resulted in the rating of the state as the most peaceful across the federation. She said: “Recent events in the country have shown that security is no longer a child’s play as it is not an exclusive preserve of any group or individual. Rather, it is inclusive of all and sundry. Therefore, as an arm of the nation’s security architecture and the first line security agency, we are soliciting for your Excellency’s continuous partnership in facilitating our efforts at ensuring a secured and peaceful State. “One of the measures adopted by the Service is the e-registration of all immigrants in the state. It is a well-known fact that indigenes of Osun travel a lot, especially to some ECOWAS countries e.g Cote d’Ivoire. Notable among them are the people of Ejigbo, Iwo and Ede Local Government Areas. “The long-time relationship between our people and the citizens of Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire has resulted in the influx of these nationals into the aforementioned Local Government Areas. Consequently, Immigration presence in these Local Government Areas is compulsory, mainly to control and cater to their needs to ensure that they are residing in Nigeria according to the extant rules and regulations of the Nigeria Immigration Service. “In an effort to stem the worrisome trend of irregular migration of Nigerians outside the country, the Comptroller-General of Immigration initiated a documentary ‘the missing link’ to illustrate the dangers of irregular and unsafe migration. This is with a view to enlightening members of the public to avoid them becoming victims of human trafficking. “For all these innovations to bear the desired results, security of lives and property is paramount and your awareness of this has made your Excellency establish a cordial relationship with all the security agencies in the state. The establishment of Western Nigeria Security Network called “Operation Amotekun” is a laudable step aimed at complementing the efforts of the Federal Government at ensuring lasting security of lives and property.” In his remarks, Governor Gboyega Oyetola called for a robust and workable modality capable of strengthening the bond of collaboration and partnership among the security agencies. He urged the NIS leadership to continue to support the state in its efforts to flush out criminal elements in the state. Oyetola who lamented the increased rate of influx of criminals, particularly illegal miners in the state, sought continued security support to end the menace. He applauded the NIS for its commitment to safeguarding the country from being encroached by illegal immigrants since its establishment. The courtesy visit had in attendance, the Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Charles Akinola; Head of Service, Dr. Festus Olowogboyega Oyebade; Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode; Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan; Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Mrs Abiodun Ige. Some Senior Officers of Zone F across the constituent states were in the entourage of ACG and Zonal Coordinator of Zone F, Mrs. Dora Amahian.