Over 150 suspected members of Iron and the Skin confraternity had Saturday night invaded Mbiabong Ikot Essien village in Uyo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State and allegedly killed six persons suspected to be members of both cult groups. It was gathered that the Iron confraternity allegedly beheaded a member of the Skin cult group a few weeks ago and the latter launched a reprisal attack last night but was also confronted by members of the Iron confraternity. It was further gathered that six suspected cultists, three from each group were killed at the attack. The village head of Mbiabong Ikot Essien, Eteidung Hosea Okon told our correspondent who visited the area, that one person from his area was killed. Chief Okon who narrated that the suspected cultists invaded his residence and vandalized his properties wondered why some youths could engage in activities that would not make positive impact on their lives. He, however, condemned the act of cultism and encouraged them to turn a new leaf. Narrating his experience last night, the village head said, “as I was lying down in front of my house last night, half asleep, the voice of my second son woke me up because I heard him shouting, mummy mummy go inside. My wife ran inside the house, leaving her phone outside. Then I saw a group of boys, over 150 in number, some with machetes. I managed to go inside so that those boys will not harm me but they started destroying my windows, doors may be to gain entrance. But one person from their group told them to stop and that was how they stopped vandalizing my property. “They were still chanting, boys are hungry, boys are hungry. That night also they entered some homes, as soon as the owners flee, they would loot whatever they saw there. “I called the police at Shelter Afrique that night and informed them about the incident. Also this morning I went there to make an official entry. I don’t know what some boys are turning into. I learnt this morning that six of their people died. It is fifty-fifty, that is three from each group. One of them I learnt died this morning at the hospital. He was cut with machete and he bled to death this morning.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in Akwa Ibom State, SP Odiko Macdon said he was yet to be briefed on the incident, promising to update members of the public as soon as he receives information on that. He noted that the commissioner of police, CP Andrew Amiengheme was determined to clamp down on cult activities in the State. “I am yet to be briefed on the killing. Immediately I receive information on the incident, I will inform you. But be assured that the Commissioner of Police, CP Andrew Amiengheme will not relent in clamping down on cultism in the State.”