The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday, prayed that God should show through divine revelation to Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State who will be his successor. A successor, according to him that would sustain the legacies of Governor Emmanuel in the state. Adeboye, who made the prayers at the Later House Chapel, Government House, Uyo during a pastoral assignment in the state, prayed that God should deliver the state from the hands of destroyers. He also asked God to guide the governor to continue being a blessing to Akwa Ibom people through the remaining days of his administration. He prayed, “Let it be well with the state and all those who wish her well too. May God grant the governor and the state good successor who will continue with the good works the governor has been doing and who will not disrupt those good works. I pray that God should show through divine revelation to your son who the successor shall be”. The Senior pastor of Jesus House Parish of RCCG, London, Pastor Agu Irukwu had while delivering a sermon on the theme, “God is Doing a New Thing” said a major obstacle to receiving a new dimension of God’s blessing is being comfortable with the familiar. He said the criteria for getting anything from God is by faith and that people who lack faith are trapped by fear to remain at a comfort zone for too long and urged Akwa Ibom to discard fear and move by faith into God’s era of new things for them. Speaking after the sermon Governor, Udom Emmanuel, described the visit of Adeboye and other senior pastors as the beginning of a geometric progression in the state’s economic fortune adding that the visit was significant of God’s blessings upon the land and the beginning of a new era. He expressed confidence that, in line with the declarations of the cleric, the era of new things has already begun in the State saying that whatever was dead in the State will come alive with multiplied peace for the State. According to Governor Emmanuel, “God follows a geometric progression. He says one shall chase a thousand; two shall chase ten thousand, not two thousand. That is a geometric progression. So when you see such congregation of ministers here, you can imagine what will happen in the state. “There is going to be a geometric progression in our economic prosperity i am confident that what God is about to do for us as a people has already begun and so shall it be in Jesus name. “So on behalf of the State, the government and good people of the State, we appreciate all the ministers of God that are here.” The session was also attended by renowned gospel ministers across the globe, including the Prelate Emeritus of the Methodist Church, Nigeria, Dr. Sunday Mbang.