The All Progressives Congress(APC) and its opponent, the Peoples Democratic Party, Akwa Ibom State chapter were on Thursday enmeshed in a war of words over alleged fake defection saga. The APC State Publicity Secretary, Nkereuwem Enyongekere in a statement on Thursday accused the ruling PDP of planning to stage a fake mass defection ceremony of their members into the PDP. He claimed the PDP has already procured a tipper load of brooms to be burnt during the so-called defection charade adding that the idea behind the stage-managed defection was to capitalize on the minor leadership controversy in the party to give the erroneous impression that the APC was dead in Akwa Ibom. He also claimed that a former member of the National Assembly and leader of a political pressure Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum(ADC) was behind the plan. The statement read in parts, ”information from highly credible source has revealed that any moment from now a conspiracy may be hatched by the PDP in the state to stage a charade of a mammoth crowd of persons supposedly members of APC defecting from the party to the PDP. ”Organizers of the planned charade are still searching for a suitable venue intended to be a statewide event and aimed at deceiving the ignorant and gullible public that Akwa Ibom APC has imploded sequel to the alleged leadership tussle and rumoured division of the party in the state. ”Yesterday a tipper load of freshly made brooms arrived from Ikot Ekpene to the residence of a PDP Chieftain in Akpa Ube, Aka Offot community in Uyo Local Government. A mountain-like heap of the broom is to be set on fire to illustrate the “demise” of APC in the state. ”The source further revealed that a former member of the NASS, hitherto a member of APC and now a Chieftain of the political pressure group that goes by the name; Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum (ADF) is linked and closely associated with the planned charade. ”The APC hereby wishes to put its members and the general public on notice of this act of desperation by a party/government that has failed in all ramifications to deliver on its promises and expectations of the people.” However, the PDP Publicity Secretary in the State, Borono Bassey in a swift reaction said APC was just crying foul saying that the PDP was large and conducive enough to accommodate any intending member and would gladly welcome genuine members from other parties. He advised the APC in the state to put its house in order saying that a house divided cannot stand. But according to the PDP, “On Thursday, April 15, 2021, rational Akwa Ibom people watched with unfettered amusement how members of the broom-wielding party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, with their fists still firmly locked at each other’s throats, halted the ongoing drama at their theatre of commotion, to wail about the impending exodus of their members to another party. “In their lamentation treatise, the makeshift Publicity Secretary of the APC in Akwa Ibom sent out a loud wail on behalf of the party that a prominent member of one of the pressure groups under the APC – the Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum, is coordinating the exodus of their members to the PDP. The Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State is forced to wonder if the APC in its characteristic display of crude ignorance is also ignorant of the fact that it is commonplace for children whose parents are frequently at each other’s throats to abandon such homes and seek refuge in safe spaces where they can have warmth and maintain their sanity. “The PDP and indeed the generality of Akwa Ibom people are not shocked by the ongoing festival of hostility within the APC in Akwa Ibom State as everyone had come to the realization that the APC is a congress of people driven by narrow, avaricious ends. Like our Lord Jesus Christ had concluded “A house divided against itself can never stand”. The Peoples Democratic Party reiterates that the warm and very peaceful umbrella of the PDP in Akwa Ibom State is large enough for every forward-looking Akwa Ibom person who is desirous of getting covered and would receive any sane Akwa Ibom person who has received fresh grace to return to the fold that has so consistently served as a vehicle for the emergence of successive visionary leaders who have catered for the welfare and development of our state and our people. We consider the impending movement of APC members as prophesied in that release at a time like this as a reflex action as humans are always known to scamper for their breath in a toxic environment like the one which the broom-welding coven has become.”