Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has warned people of the state against being hostile to security agents. The Governor also warned against actions that could lead to the death of security operatives sent to the state to restore peace. Governor Ortom gave the warning on Saturday in Daudu during a funeral oration in honour of the late John Azulo who died of suspected COVID-19 complications and was buried a few months ago. In the words of the Governor, “No one should be tempted to be hostile to any security personnel let alone molestation. I won’t talk of attacking or killing security men,” Ortom stated. The Governor said security agents are meant to protect lives and property and they have families like all of us just as blood runs in their veins the same way it does in others. He said rather than being hostile, the people of the state, particularly youths should support the agencies in the execution of their constitutional duties of enforcing the law. The Governor assured that the militia group in Konshisha local government that killed soldiers have murdered sleep, stressing that his administration would ensure they are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law. Governor Ortom extolled the virtues of Chief Azulo, describing him as one who resisted the temptation to derail from his known principles of love, peace, truthfulness and strength of character for which he would always be remembered. Speaker, Benue State House of Assembly, Mr Titus Uba said the various testimonies of exemplary lifestyle that had poured in during Chief Azulo’s funeral should challenge all who came in contact with him to live worthy lives. In separate orations, House of Representatives Member for Makurdi-Guma, Hon Benjamin Mnzondu, Guma Council Chairman Hon Caleb Aba and the Ter Guma, Chief Dennis Shemberga all eulogized the deceased and alluded to his exemplary lifestyle. Earlier, the Parish Priest of St Francis Catholic Church Daudu, Reverend Father James Bature whose sermon centred on ‘one’s life, before and after death,’ challenged Christians to live the kind of life that could help them make heaven when they die.