Members of the People’s Democratic Party have accused the Sokoto State, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of igniting crisis among members of the party in the North-West states. They accused him of masterminding crisis in Kaduna, Kano and Jigawa as well as other states of the zone for his interest ahead of the 2023 presidency. This is coming at the time when the party is preparing to elect its zonal leaders of the six zones. It was reported that the party’s zonal congress in Kaduna ended in violence, between the supporters of Tambuwal and the former Governor of Kano State Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. Supporters of the two leaders clashed, destroying ballot boxes before the commencement of the congress, over the positioning of the North-West zonal vice chairman of the party and supporting rival faction of the PDP in Kano. Kwankwaso and the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali had been at loggerheads over the supremacy of power in the state. Kwankwaso had in an interview with BBC Hausa service accused Tambuwal of meddling in the affairs of the party in Kano and other states as part of his preparation for the 2023 presidential ambition. “It is unfortunate that Mr Tambuwal in his opinion doesn’t want us from the Kwankwasiyya faction to be elected for positions,” In Jigawa also, some members of 2015, 2019 gubernatorial candidate of the PDP lead faction Mal. Aminu Ibrahim Ringim has also accused Tambuwal of taking sides in the crisis in the state.
Two factions emerged after the conduct of the 2021 general elections in Jigawa State, that of the Sule Lamido lead faction and the Aminu Ibrahim Ringim lead faction. The latter accused Lamido of sabotaging the party to win the 2019 and 2021 elections of the party, an accusation he denied. Also, a chieftain in PDP in Kaduna, Adamu Musa Lele in his interview with (Aminiyya) alleged that Tambuwal’s involvement in states’ affairs e party may cause injuries to the party ahead of the 2023 elections. He accused Tambuwal of not honouring the agreement reached among party stakeholders on the 1st of March 2021. Lere urged the PDP National leadership to call Tambuwal to order for the unity of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. While responding through his Media aid Muhammad Bello, Tambuwal denied the allegations. He said all he was doing was to ensure peace and unity of the party, having been the chairman of the PDP’s Governors forum.