A former Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, gubernatorial aspirant in Abia State, Chief Emeka Kalu has decried the spate of killings in many parts of the country. Kalu stated that the inability of President Muhammadu Buhari to tackle insecurity, coupled with the current economic hardship bedeviling the citizenry exposed lack of true leadership in Nigeria. The PDP chieftain stated this on Tuesday, while condemning the incessant killings of security operatives in the south-east and the unprecedented rate of banditry and kidnappings across the nation. Kalu, who doubles as the National Coordinator of PDP Coalition, warned that if nothing was urgently done to save the situation in the country, Nigeria was on the way to slide into a failed state. He argued that the Buhari-led Federal Government with other political leaders at other tiers of government, have not been selfless and proactive in tackling various national challenges, adding that the leaders have all failed the citizens in all ramifications. The Party Stalwart alleged that several billions of naira reportedly earmarked for security purpose in the name of security votes and allocations to security agencies have gone into private pockets with impunity. He posited that torrents of attack on security operatives in the southeast and south south; farmers-herders crisis in the southwest, banditry and kidnappings in the entire north had indicated that the high level of corruption in the Nigerian security system. Kalu further opined the All Progressive Congress led federal government is not doing enough to monitor and sanitize the sector. He said, “this renewed spate of criminality in our communities has exposed President Buhari s inability to defend and unite the nation. He has no clear vision of leading the country to the path of unity, peace and progress. “Nigeria under President Muhammadu Buhari is gradually sliding into a failed state, and the fact that the primary obligation of government, in consonance with our constitution is to guarantee welfare and security of the citizenry, this government has failed Nigerians”. Kaku urged Southeast governors to go back to the drawing board in adopting effective and prudent measures to curb the attacks on security formations in the zone. The Party chieftain also called on the citizens to complement the government’s fight against criminalities by assisting security agencies in the country with useful information in order to nip in the bud the act of terrorism, banditry and kidnapping being experiencing in some parts of Nigeria.