Catholic Bishop of Awka Diocese, Most Rev Dr Paulinus Ezeokafor has charged governors of the South-east to rise up and protect the people of their states. The Bishop who delivered his Easter message to journalists in his office at St Patrick’s Cathedral, Awka spoke against the growing insecurity in the country and the recent killing in Ebonyi State, reminding the governors that they owe the people the duty of protecting them against invading herdsmen. “Many of the South-East governors are already serving their second term in office, so I wonder why they cannot stamp their feet on the ground and speak against the insecurity in the zone. “We need to remind them that they are responsible for the protection of the people of their states. They were elected to serve their people. How can you continue to romance the federal government, even when you find out that the federal government is not favourable to your people? “Shouldn’t you for once tell them the truth about how bad things are in your zone? Look at the killing in Ebonyi, see how people were massacred, yet we have not heard a categorical statement from the federal government.” Ezeokafor said he was particularly worried that the federal government has failed to condemn the activities of murderous Fulani herdsmen, despite their obvious threat to security in the country. “The body language of the president is worrisome. He has never directly condemned the activities of the herdsmen. I’m the head of this diocese and if something goes wrong, people will be waiting to hear what I have to say. That is how people are waiting to hear what Buhari has to say about the activities of Fulani herdsmen in the country. “It is this (body language) that make me say one Nigeria is not at all cost because we must be prepared to show that we are truly one, else the unity could be negotiated. Buhari told us he is for everyone and for no one, but recent activities have shown that the president is for some people only. “Buhari should speak out and let people hear him. Even if his people want to cover his eyes about the things happening, he should speak up,” Ezeokafor said. He also condemned the recent wave of attacks on security agents in the Southeast, describing the killing as senseless.