Barely a day after the gruesome murder of two policemen by unknown gunmen in Taraba State, the state has again been thrown into mourning following the killings of three farmers. The farmers who were tilling their farmlands in preparation for the rainy season, were on Wednesday hacked to death in the farms by unknown persons. The incident, as gathered by DAILY POST happened in Assa village of Wukari local government council of the state. Confirming the incident to our correspondent, the Wukari council chairman, Dr. Daniel Adi expressed sadness at the way and manner innocent persons were being sent to their graves by hoodlums. Wondering why the spate of insecurity has been on the increase, he called on both the state and federal government to do the needful by deploying more security operatives to the area. Though DAILY POST can confirm if the attackers were Tiv as is speculated, Hon Adi expressed conviction that the attackers were Tiv militiamen, whom he alleged have been terrorizing the area. He said, “From the information we got from a survivor who took cover when the farms were invaded, the attackers came from Ijandeikyura through Ikaior and are suspected to be Tiv militia.” Appealing to the people of the council to remain calm and not to take laws into their hands, Adi promised that the leadership of the council, will work with the security operatives to track down the perpetrators A family member of one of the deceased who spoke to DAILY POST urged the government to leave no stone unturned in fishing out the killers of the three farmers whom he described as law-abiding citizens of the country. Should the government fail to do the needful, the family and the community would be left with no option other than to launch a reprisal attack. When reached for further confirmation, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, said the command is still waiting for an official report of the incident from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO)of the council. Aside from the spate of kidnappings and armed bandits activities that have enveloped the state, especially the southern geopolitical zone, which comprises of Wukari, Takum, Ussa, Donga and Ibi councils, the ongoing cold war between the Tiv and Jukun, has continued to give indigenes course or concern.