Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Senate on, Thursday, raised the alarm that some villages and communities in Federal Capital Territory (FCT) were already under the siege of terrorists. This followed a motion moved through a point of order by Musa Sani from Niger State. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, urged the United States to reconsider relocating its Africa Command (AFRICOM) from Stuttgart, Germany to Africa, nearer the Theatre of Operation and implored the international community to support Nigeria and the sub-region in tackling growing security challenges to avoid spillovers to other countries. 3. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Tuesday, accused some Muslim leaders and preachers of deriving pleasure in statements, preaching and other actions that could trigger religious war in Nigeria. CAN General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, stated this in a statement in Abuja, yesterday. 4. Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State and Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal have stressed the need for states to cooperate in tackling the menace of banditry and kidnapping. The two governors took the stand in Sokoto when El-Rufai visited to condole with Tambuwal over the death of Hajiya Aishatu. 5. Governor Samuel Ortom has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency over Nigeria’s deteriorating security situation. The governor spoke yesterday after an attack that led to the death of 7 people in Abagena Community, Makurdi LG. 6. The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has condemned, in strong terms, multiple attacks on security agencies, installations and infrastructure in recent weeks, describing those behind the attacks as enemies of the state. This was contained in a statement by Executive Director, CISLAC, Auwal Ibrahim Musa Rafsanjani. 7. The Lagos State Government, yesterday, declared that the activities of transport unions, popularly known as Agbero, on the roads across the state are numbered. Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederick Oladeinde made the declaration on Tuesday. 8. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) has assured that Nigeria will soon overcome the current security challenges facing it. He spoke while hosting His Royal Majesty, Yakanaje Uke, Nasarawa State, Alhaji Ahmed Abdullahi Hassan, at the State House. 9. The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) on Tuesday said Channels Television has apologised over its infraction of the broadcasting code. NBC’s Director of Public Affairs Mrs. Franca Aiyetan said this yesterday in Abuja. 10. The British Minister for Africa, James Duddridge has said no partnership would resolve the multiplicity of the country’s problems, whether it is Boko Haram insurgency or several other issues. He stated this during his courtesy visit to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama.