A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Olumide Aderinokun, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to act urgently to save Nigeria from falling apart. Aderinokun said the unity of Nigeria under President Buhari is ‘shaky’ following the high rate of insecurity in the country A statement released by Aderinokun media aide, Taiye Taiwo, the politician condemned the insecurity menace in Nigeria, calling on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to focus more on securing lives and properties instead of politicising the recent events. “Just before the Imo State Police Headquarters and a correctional facility in Owerri were attacked by gunmen, which led to the release of over 1,800 inmates on Monday, the country had recorded several security challenges including kidnapping, robberies, communal clashes to mention a few. “It is obvious that the current security situation across the nation is deteriorating which calls for worry for every concerned Nigerian. That is why it is very important for President Muhammadu Buhari to do something very urgent to save Nigeria from falling apart. “We must learn to live peacefully with ourselves. No nation can make any meaningful progress in an atmosphere riddled with pockets of violence and killings. “It is time for every Nigerian to unite and eschew bitterness along ethnic and religious lines for the sake of a prosperous Nigeria.” Aderinokun, an indigene of Ogun Central Senatorial District, charged the Buhari government “to live up to his responsibilities instead of playing the blame game.” Speaking further, the businessman advocated massive job creation for the country’s teeming youths, saying this would reduce the rising unemployment rate and discourage youth’s involvement in crimes. Commenting on the strike action by resident doctors and polytechnic lecturers, Aderinokun maintained that utmost consideration should be given to workers’ welfare through regular payment of salaries and other allowances. He explained that owed allowances should be cleared because the government has enough resources to do so.