Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, yesterday, alleged that the elites in Nigeria were behind the plot to divide the country. The lawmaker spoke to journalists on Saturday in his home town, Gashua, Yobe State. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Saturday, condemned the Monday night attack on three communities in Íshíelu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. In a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, Buhari directed law enforcement agencies to fish out the attackers and make them face justice. 3. Spokesman of Afenifere, a Pan-Yoruba sociocultural group, Yinka Odumakin died in the early hours of Saturday at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. He was said to have died in an isolation centre after testing positive for coronavirus. 4. Biafra Nations League, BNL, said it has ordered its members to launch a reprisal attack on Fulani herdsmen following the recent killing of at least 15 people in Ebonyi State. The Cross River State, Deputy National Leader of BNL, and Head of Operations, BBS Media, Ebuta Akor Takon, made this known yesterday. 5. The United Kingdom, medical regulator on Saturday said seven out of 30 people who suffered rare blood clots after receiving the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, have died. 6. Hundreds of residents who fled from Marte town, Borno State, after an attack on army formations have returned on Saturday. The residents, mostly women and children, sought refuge in nearby Dikwa town after the attack on February 28. 7. All Progressives Congress leader, Bola Tinubu, yesterday, said the story of Nigeria’s democracy will not be complete without mentioning the late Afenifere Spokesman, Yinka Odumakin. Tinubu said this in a condolence message on Saturday. 8. Delta State was thrown into mourning yesterday as news filtered in on the death of former acting governor of the state, Mr Sam Obi. He passed away in the early hours of Saturday in Asaba, the state capital. 9. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, on Saturday, disclosed that the Federal Government substantially met the demands of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD), faulting the rejection of the Memorandum of Action signed on Wednesday, March 31, by the President of NARD, Dr Uyilawa Okhuaihesuyi. 10. The Nigeria Center for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 50 new cases of COVID-19 in six states, bringing the total number of recorded infections to 163,113. The health agency made the announcement on Saturday night while giving an update via its official website.