The families of Taiwo Omorede and Bright Osagiede of Egbaen community, Ovia North East Local Government Area of Edo State have instituted a suit against the Nigerian Police, the Inspector-General of Police and two police personnel of the IGP Monitoring Unit; Aminu Sokoto, a DSP and A. Elema, an ACP over alleged illegal detention of their breadwinners since March 20, 2021. The families said the detainees have been denied bail, neither have they been charged to court for any offence. In a suit marked 3/65m/2021 and 3/64m/2021, the two families accused the police of infringing on their fundamental human rights of personal liberty and dignity of human person as guaranteed under the Nigeria’s Constitution. They said the incident that led to their arrest which was a clash between people from Egbaen and Igho communities which resulted in the death of one Umar Usman and another injured, has been investigated by the Special Anti-Cultism Unit of the police, adding that at no time were the names of the two persons mentioned. According to the wife of Osagiede, Happiness, “They came on Saturday night around 11 pm and they were hitting our door violently, I first thought they were armed robbers as they almost broke our window and tore the window nets, they entered the house, turned the whole place upside down and asked that I should bring the gun owned by my husband; my husband don’t own a gun and that was how he was taken away and since then, we have not heard from them.” Her story was corroborated by Emily Omorede who said her husband is a welder and the Okhaighele of the community. A member of the community, Ohkakuen Erwhaze said after they were arrested, “Then they took the remaining four to Asaba and from Asaba they were taken to Abuja. After a week and three days, they released another two while Omorede and Osagiede are still being held.” “They were granted bail in Abuja with over N400,000 and they were told to report back the following day, and when they reported, they were kept back till date and they have not allowed anybody to see them,” he said.