The Benue State’s 2023 Governorship contest is getting hotter. According to findings by Grassroots Africa, a local newspaper in the state, three political blocs are suing to pick the coveted seat, when Governor Samuel Ortom graciously bows out in tandem with the Nigerian constitution. The findings indicated that while parts of the Benue North East Senatorial District; Kwande and Jachira are dragging and laying claims to the seat, the Kwande bloc is of the argument that the emergence of Ortom from Minda signalled the completion of the virtuous cycles and hence in their opinion, the return of the seat to them. The first civilian Governor of the state, late Appolos Aper Aku who was elected as governor in 1979 and got re-elected in 1983 hailed from the Kwande axis. Contrarily, the Jechira are of the opinion that their son’s tenure (Moses Orshior Adasu) was truncated by the military administration when Gen. Sani Abacha sacked the then interim administration of Chief Ernest Shonekan, so they should be allowed to produce the next Chief Executive for the state. With Adasu being the major basis for the Jechira’s claim to the seat, they refer to the same scenario replicated in other states such as Taraba, Kogi, Yobe and a host of others submitting that Jechira be graciously allowed a shot in the spirit of fairness. On the other hand, the Benue South Senatorial District otherwise known as Zone C, comprising mostly of the Idoma and Igede ethnic tribes, have argued that though they are minorities, they should equally be averred a sense of belonging by their Tiv Majority ethnic tribe in the state by conceding the position to them for the first time since the creation of the state in 1976, in the spirit of brotherliness. Grassroots Africa’s investigations revealed that although it remains uncertain at the moment which of the blocs will produce the next governor of the state, there appears to be mounting pressure on the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Samuel Ortom, Terver Akase, to gun for the converted seat. Findings indicate that those who want him to join the race see him as a dedicated servant who in their opinions has served the governor well and should be allowed to step into the shoes of his boss. This group comprises mostly the young, old and other critical stakeholders in the state who believe in the Adage that “a little Boy who washes his hands properly is allowed to dine with elders.” This school of thought believed that Terver Akase has prepared himself very well to take over from his boss in 2023. Born over 4 decades ago, Akase, a graduate of Mass Communication at the prestigious Benue state university, worked at the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria before he was then appointed as Senior Special Assistant to the Governor. He was later elevated due to his selfless service as the Chief Press Secretary. He is loved by youths irrespective of party differences. They believe that he has the potential to improve on the existing efforts by former governors. Confirming this position, the acting APC publicity secretary, James Ornguga has this to say about Akase. “If all men had your kind of heart, the world would be a better place. ”You were very dependable, caring and supportive throughout the time I worked under you. “You see life beyond today and that is what truly makes you unique.” ”Though political barricade stands between us at the moment, you are truly a Boss. ”Happy birthday, Terver Akase, Chief Press Secretary to the Benue State Governor.” Ornguga had posted. ”Akase’s professionalism in his job was always prevalent. As a media handler to Ortom, he always responds to issues meritoriously, gently and respectfully, as he hardly insults people while trying to set records straight. I think Terver Akase believes in tomorrow and life after Ortom in Government.” Someone said of him. Grassroots Africa’s investigations observed that Akase has always supported youth oriented projects, especially those which are innovative and creative, patronizing and encouraging the youths in their fields of endeavours, from artistry, writing, publishing and to fame; such as celebrities in reality shows. Recently he ensured that the Best Graduating Students in the University of Calabar were given immediate employment by the Benue State Government, as a reward for their hard work. As one who also engages himself in humanitarian activities, Akase has paid rents, assisted the youths when they were sick or lost relatives, also supporting their businesses once his attention was drawn to such. The former correspondence chapel Chairman in Rivers State is also said to have on several occasions sponsored soccer tournaments in his Constituency and supported those who won as well as other participants. Such tournaments it was gathered have greatly reduced social vices in his community. Though yet to make public his governorship ambition, Akase who represents the younger generation is viewed as an agent of transition between the old and younger generation of Benue politicians. His rumoured ambition, it was gathered, has continued to receive acceptance and publicity especially among the youths, at a point he may succumb to pressure and run for the 2023 Governorship election. Political observers are of the opinion that should he throw in the towel, he will make an impressive candidate due to his good relationship with many social fractions in the State; the old, the youths, notwithstanding their political affiliations, causing his favour among stakeholders in Ortom’s Government who see him as the right choice to take over from his boss. Akase who hails from Agbeede, is from the Jechira political bloc, one of the blocs laying claims to the Benue’s Governorship seat.