The political infighting between members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State appears to have been laid to rest as loyalists of Late Buruji Kashamu and Hon. Ladi Adebutu sheathed their swords. This is as leaders of the PDP in the State gathered Wednesday at the party secretariat in Abeokuta for a reunion. DAILY POST reports that the gathering had in attendance, leaders from both factions of the party, including Chief Doyin Okupe, Ladi Adebutu, Aare Tunde Alabi, Prince Segun Seriki and others. Our correspondent reports that the two factional Chairman of the party, Sikirulahi Ogundele and Samson Bamgbose were at the event, as the duo agreed to work together for a united PDP in Ogun. In his words, Ogundele said the reunion marked the beginning of a new relationship that would drive the party to power in 2023. “I am happy that the PDP of 2003 is now back. We are now together in harmony, looking forward to having a united PDP in Ogun State. We are going to get back our mandate from the misrule of the APC, a party that has no blueprint. They just wake up in the morning and embark on any project that comes to their head. They give water or road where not needed. The PDP is the best party so far and we are winning in 2023,” Ogundele stated. On his own part, Bamgbose expressed optimism that “as God brings us together again, we shall march to victory, stronger than we were in 2004.” Bamgbose urged members of the party to work together like in the days of former Governor Gbenga Daniel, saying PDP was zero when OGD came in the buildup to the 2003 election. “OGD came when PDP was zero in Ogun State, but we were able to conquer those who were in power then. Be ready, we are going to the battlefield. Tell those at home that we are all here. PDP is back,” he emphasised. Also, Segun Seriki clarified that the only Chairman of the PDP in Ogun State was Ogundele. He said, “I am telling you that there is only one PDP Chairman in Ogun and that is Ogundele. We are no more bothered about exco, now we are talking about next government in Ogun State. We want Ladi Adebutu to represent us and he is going to win in our name. I congratulate all PDP members, we are taking over government in 2023.” In his remarks, Doyin Okupe was full of praises as he knelt to praise God for the reunion, describing it as happening at God-given time. Okupe told party leaders in the state that “disagreement is not disloyalty,” adding that “if we don’t disagree, we can’t agree to move forward. Addressing party faithful, Adebutu enjoined them to be work in harmony without any rancour. According to him, “the PDP has come to rescue Ogun residents and Nigerians from the suffering bestowed on them by the APC.” DAILY POST recalls that a reconciliation committed led by Former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, had recently brokered peace between the two factions, even as some Kashamu loyalists defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC).