The Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial district, Ishaku Elisha Abbo has said it is not difficult ending Boko Haram attacks and other criminal activities in the North East. To end insurgency, he said, required commitment of government in establishing security formations in some strategic areas in the North, with the business of facing Sambisa forest alone. Speaking with journalists in Abuja on Thursday after a one day public hearing on a bill to establish a Federal Medical Centre, Mubi, the lawmaker said ‘it’s not a rocket science’, ending Boko Haram activities. According to him, the war against insurgents should be taken from Adamawa axis because of its close proximity to Sambisa forest, while he also suggested establishment of battalions. He said: “I told the current Chief of Army Staff, just like I told the former Inspector General of Police the same thing, that all you need to do is to create a battalion and position that battalion in the axis of Madagali. “This will create a buffer between Adamawa and Sambisa forest. This should be purely infantry, well skilled, well trained, well armed. Position one battalion between Borno and Adamawa; position one battalion in Uba and that will create a buffer there in Sambisa forest; position one battalion in Garkida which will make a brigade. “With battalion in Madagali, Uba, Garkida, no Boko Haram will enter Adamawa State. Is it difficult to create? It is not difficult. “So, the government has to change their strategy, even Abuja is not safe. It not only Adamawa that is not safe. Go to Kwali in the night and come back to tell me about what you see. Or drive to Kuje or Abaji in the night and see what I am talking about. “So on this matter, if government is committed to ending insecurity, we can end it. It’s not impossible; it’s not a rocket science.” He urged government to be alive to its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property, describing as unacceptable, killings, destruction of properties and heinous crimes going on in the country. “Let me be frank with you. The primary responsibility of government as enshrined in the Constitution of Nigeria is number one: security, two welfare of the people. Any government that fails in these two, is a failed government,” he said. Abbo, who is the Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Navy, disclosed how he suggested a strategy to end insurgency, but the past heads of security agencies paid deaf ears. “Few days ago, as the Vice Chairman of the Committee on Nigerian Navy, and member Senate Committee on Defence, Mr President sent names of Service Chiefs to the Senate for confirmation. “Their names were referred to the Committee. Now we decided to bring all of them together in the spirit of collaboration. “Part of what I told them during a closed-door session is why should a State like Adamawa continue to be attacked by Boko Haram? “The strategy that is currently put in place has to be reviewed. I went ahead to make a submission and I am going to meet with the Chief of Army Staff next week. From Madagali to Sambisa forest is about seven kilometers,” he added.