The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Tuesday, urged the South-East Governors to without further delay enter into negotiations with angry youths in the zone. This is coming on the heels of heightened tensions in the region, with unknown gunmen wreaking havoc on a daily basis across the five States in the zone. DAILY POST reports that the weekend killing of Ikonso Don, the commander of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB’s Eastern Security Network, ESN, has added to the tension in the zone, with the pro-Biafra group vowing to go all out for revenge. In a statement made available to DAILY POST, the Secretary-General of the Chidi-Ibeh led Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro said any delay in entering into a negotiation process with the youths would spell doom for the zone. He said the rising insecurity in the zone was a product of age-long neglect of the youths by the political class, and unprovoked killing of agitators. He recalled that, “there have been instances where security agencies opened fire on Biafra agitators where they are holding their meetings and nothing was done about it. That is where the problem started and we must address it from there. “We have two challenges- the killer herdsmen who have been ravaging the land and nothing serious was done to checkmate them. Secondly, the neglect of the youths while politicians lived in affluence. “However, we must all know that whatever is happening is to our own disadvantage and the enemies are happy that the South-East is burning. “The Federal Government has also not implemented the promises it made during the EndSARS, especially with regards to financial compensation of victims. We also did not see much from them in the form of palliatives during the COVID-19 lockdown, so the youths are angry. “Now, talking about the South-East Governors meeting on Sunday, they still missed the point. The people at the centre of it all- the youths, were not in any way represented during the meeting. “What we are saying is that everybody should rise up to the occasion; the governors are trying but what is happening is beyond them and we have to help them.” “There should be town hall meetings; there should be interface, engagements with the youths, the youths are not happy with the system they found themselves in Nigeria. “The governors are even setting up committees without the youths, without their representatives. We are calling on the governors and other stakeholders to reach out to the youths, they should give what belongs to the youths to them. There is danger ahead and that danger can be averted now. If they fail to do so, it will not augur well for our people,” he warned.