Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has explained the rationale behind his action to appoint a consultant to oversee and manage internally generated revenue of tertiary institutions in the state. Makinde made this disclosure while inaugurating the governing council of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) Ogbomoso on Thursday. DAILY POST gathered that some staff and students of tertiary institutions in the state and other stakeholders had condemned the action of the governor over his action to appoint a consultant to manage the revenue of the institutions. Lecturers in the institutions are still on indefinite strike. Our correspondent gathered one of the major reasons for the strike is the appointment of the consultant by the governor. Makinde has, however, said that he decided to engage the consultant because the institutions were not ready to embrace transparency. He maintained that the government resorted to hiring consultants because financial activities in the institutions were opaque. Makinde while speaking further, added that his administration’s desire to improve the quality of education in the state had led to its scaling up the subventions to tertiary institutions up to 100 per cent from the 50 per cent, which the last administration raised it in the last days of the government. He said, “Let me also use this opportunity to talk about the lingering crisis at The Polytechnic Ibadan. Though most of the other tertiary institutions that embarked on the strike action have backed off, it is remaining only The Polytechnic Ibadan. “The students were at the Secretariat the other day to make their grievances known and we listened to them. But I must make this very clear; we would not have got into this situation if those schools’ governing councils did their jobs transparently and honestly. “What were the issues they were talking about? They were saying they don’t want Platinum Consultants and other things. But we had to resort to hiring consultants because of the opacity of their transactions. “The day before the previous administration left, they moved the higher institutions’ subvention from 25 per cent to 50 per cent and from that 50 per cent, we moved it to 100 per cent. We said we would take it on because education is one of the major pillars of this administration. “But I said to them that if we are moving on with 100 per cent subventions, you should also be open with your IGR. We watched the situation for several months and we did not hear anything about the IGR. As a result of that, we hired a consultant.”