The Osun State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates have re-anointed the immediate past National Vice Chairman in the South West, Eddy Olafeso in the same capacity in the forthcoming Zonal Congress of the party in the zone. Recall that another hopeful of the position of the party’s South West Chairman, Amb. Taofeeq Arapaja, who was a former Oyo State Deputy Governor, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja had visited a section of the PDP leaders in Osogbo recently, for support and adoption as the right candidate. While Amb. Arapaja, is one of the loyalists of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Dr Olafeso enjoys the support of a former Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Ayodele Fayose. The Osun PDP delegates, on Thursday, at the Party Secretariat, Biket area, Osogbo, unanimously endorsed Dr Olafeso, described him as a round peg. The Chairman of the party in the state, Hon. Sunday Bisi, who presided over the meeting, maintained that the immediate past National Vice Chairman in the South West is the only candidate in sight, who could make the party proud in every sense of the word. Hon. Bisi stated that Olafeso has been tested and trusted to project and protect the interest of all members of the party if re-elected. Speaking at the event, the National Deputy Publicity Secretary of the party, Hon. Diran Odeyemi, who threw his weight behind Olafeso and his team stated that he has worked with both Amb. Arapaja and Dr Olafeso and that the latter is the best choice for the post. In his words, a former National Secretary of the party, Prof. Wale Oladipo encouraged delegates and the party leaders not to relent in their resolve to support Olafeso as only he represents the general interest and will of the members of the party in the Zone. He assured them that, going by the experience, integrity and antecedent of Dr Olafeso, he would perform excellently well in the assignments of PDP National Vice Chairman in the South West. Earlier, Dr Olafeso who expressed happiness and satisfaction at the massive turnout of leaders and delegates at the event, stated that he shall come out with flying colours, whenever the Zonal Congress is held. “I have won. With what you see here in Osogbo which has already been replicated in Lagos, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo and even Oyo, it is very clear that the delegates and all other relevant stakeholders are solidly behind us”, Olafeso said. “Engineer Deji Doherty of Lagos, Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele of Ogun, Hon. Sunday Bisi of Osun and all others are solidly behind us”, he added. He, however, disowned the April 10 date of South West Zonal Congress, allegedly scheduled to hold in Ibadan, Oyo State capital as it was flying on the social media platforms.