A Civil Society group, Citizens Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights and a Nigerian-American philanthropist, Toyin Dawodu have disclosed their willingness to resolve the lingering impasse involving graduates of Medical Sciences at the University of Lagos. Speaking at a press briefing in Abuja, convener of the Citizens Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights expressed fears that the future of over 13, 000 graduates of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, was hanging in the balance if nothing was done to resolve the differences immediately. The impasse they maintained, was also affecting their mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The University of Lagos is reportedly yet to issue certificates to about 13,000 graduates including those of medical sciences for unresolved administrative issues. They said: “As a result, the students, comprising intakes in the 2018/2019 academic sessions have been unable to participate in the mandatory National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, scheme. Dawodu stressed that the expectation of medical graduates to practice their profession was being jeopardised as they can’t secure employment anywhere in the world without licenses. Mr. Dawodu noted that “the problem has existed for over 15 months and not a single leader or person in Nigeria has thought it painful enough to do something about it.” On his part, Barrister Tietie while narrating the ordeal of the students said: “The management of the University has not been able to give us a convincing answer but blames its inability to issue the certificates on the COVID-19 pandemic. “While we agree that the coronavirus could be a valid reason for convocation not to hold; the virus shouldn’t be a reason for failing to issue certificates. The excuse is totally unacceptable,” he said. Barrister Tietie who made a copy of the petition he intends to submit to the Federal Ministry of Education available to journalists, called for government’s intervention within seven days, failure which they would approach the Court for redress. He added that the crisis is not unconnected with the feud between the university’s former Pro-Chancellor, Wale Babalakin and the Governing Council; which was only resolved a few months ago.