The Tangale Community Overseas, TCO, of Gombe State, has observed with dismay an alleged meticulous design by Governor Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya to subjugate the minority tribes in the state to Fulani rulership. The group noted with regret that the development in the state is not anyway meant for the unity and peace of the entire ethnic groups. Lamela Umaru Lakorok, General Secretary, TCO, stated this in a statement made available to DAILY POST in Kaduna on Saturday, and titled, “Re: That Misleading Press Release By The Tangale Community Overseas: A Response” on Mai Tangale stool crisis in Biliri local government area of Gombe State. The statement lamented that many organizations in the Middle Belt have made similar observations and remarks about the behavior and actions of people like Gov. Yahaya who have systematically sought to suppress minority tribes in Northern Nigeria. The group lamented that the current oppression of Justice Beatrice Iliya, the senior and most qualified justice in Gombe state, hails from Tangale, lamenting that Gov. Yahaya has denied her the right to lead her people in her profession. The statement recalled that when the same governor held up announcing the result of the election of Dr. Musa I. Mai Yamba as the Mai Tangle, they knew he was up to no good, stressing that no leader who has the welfare of his people in mind would do what Gov. Yahaya did in Tangale land. According to the statement, they would always hold Gov. Yahaya responsible and accountable for the mayhem perpetrated on their people and land. The group noted that they are sons and daughters of Tangale, have Christians and Muslims in their families, pointing out that what they reject is the Fulanization of their land. According to them, “Our desire is for a peaceful and prosperous Gombe State. We are ready to give our voice to the Governor’s economic development plans for the state once he acquiesces to peace and justice for all in Gombe state.” The statement explained that the crisis in Biliri started before governor Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya announced the new Mai Tangle, stressing that their women and youths started a protest two days after the non-announcement of the results of the election of Mai Tangle in which HRH, Musa Idris Mai Yamba won the election by 5 votes to 2 each for the other two candidates. According to the statement, they had let the governor know that he needed to announce the results as it was not his place to “decide” the winner according to the Gombe Chieftaincy law, which they cited the specific relevant portion (Part IV, section 1 [p.20]), which covers the Appointment & Discipline of Traditional rulers thus, stressing that upon the death, resignation, removal or disposition of an Emir or a Chief, the Governor shall approve the appointment of an Emir or a Chief on the recommendation of the Council of Traditional Kingmakers of the Emirate or Chiefdom. The group alleged that it seems to them that you (governor) did not read the complete law to realize the difference between an emirate or chieftaincy created by the state and the existing emirates and chieftaincies that preexisted the state. It stated that the law says the election of the emir or chief is to be according to the customs and traditions of the people, saying that the customs and traditions of the Tangale people are that the one with the majority votes is the winner. The group noted that if the governor have difficulties understanding the written Gombe State Chieftaincy Law, they would be glad to help him understand it. The statement assured that they have all the time needed to help the Gov. understand their customs and traditions because, after all, this is their identity and their life. It said it is evident from the governor confusion of Billiri town with the Tangale people, that the governor do not know the people he claims to care about. They explained, “We are not a violent people; we have never had any crisis in Tangale land until Gov. Yahaya’s misguided self-absorbed concoction of a crisis.”