Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), has kicked against the exclusion of the party’s name from the list of the political parties that will participate in the forthcoming local government election in Oyo State. DAILY POST gathered that Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) has fixed May 15th as the date for the local government election in the state. Our correspondent learnt that OYSIEC did not include the name of SPN in the list of the political parties that will participate in the election. SPN in its reaction, described the exclusion of the party’s name as an act of hypocrisy. The party in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday, noted that it is important for OYSIEC to note that purported and illegal deregistration of SPN was nullified by the full panel of the Court of Appeal led by the President, Hon Justice M. B Dongban Mensem. SPN in the statement signed by its Secretary, Comrade Ayodeji Adigun, urged OYSIEC to comply with the Appeal Court judgement and furnish it with all the necessary information and documents that will facilitate its participation. The party noted that SPN is a registered political party that should be allowed to participate in the forthcoming election. “We of the Socialist Party of Nigeria, SPN, Oyo State Chapter write to officially notify the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) of our displeasure over the Commission’s continued refusal to recognise our party as one of registered political parties qualified to participate in the local government elections scheduled to hold on the 15th May, 2021. “SPN sees this call as an act of hypocrisy especially when a registered political party like ours that is ready for an active participation in the elections remains deliberately excluded by the same OYSIEC. “We equally consider it very important to bring to the notice of the Commission, the subsisting judgement of the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja in APPEAL NO. CA/ABJ/CV/507/2020, ACD & 21 others AND the Attorney General of the Federation & INEC wherein the purported and illegal deregistration of our Party, SPN was nullified by the Full Panel of the Court of Appeal led by the President, Hon Justice M. B Dongban Mensem. “Also note that the above judgement cannot be stayed, and indeed has not been stayed and as we write, the INEC has no valid appeal against the judgement at the Supreme Court. Even if it has, appeal in law does not operate as a stay of execution of a subsisting judgement. The implication therefore is that SPN is a registered political party until the Supreme Court decides otherwise. “Given this background, we hereby urge the Commission to comply with the Appeal Court judgement and furnish us with all the necessary information and documents that will facilitate our participation and preparation for the scheduled local government elections.” But, OYSIEC Chairman, Barrister Isiaka Abiola Olagunju, while speaking noted that INEC did not include the name of SPN in the registered political parties when it gave OYSIEC the list of registered political parties in the state. Olagunju who spoke with DAILY POST on Wednesday, however, said that the issue of exclusion of name can be resolved amicably. He added that it is the duty of INEC to register political parties. “The duty of INEC is to conduct election in Nigeria. OYSIEC is to conduct election in Oyo State. We are not the ones that register political parties. It is the duty of INEC to register political parties. When we came on board, INEC gave us 18 names and SPN is not there. “I have not set my eyes on the court document they are referring to. They can come so that we can resolve the matter amicably. We are not interested in excluding any political party. What we want is an all-inclusive election.”