The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, on Wednesday, gave a 72-hour ultimatum to heads of DSS, police, civil defense and other security agencies to arrest the killers of two soldiers and police officers in the state. Umahi made this known while briefing journalists shortly after an enlarged security emergency meeting that took place at the new Government House, Abakaliki. The governor, however, tasked unknown gunmen to stop attacking, killing security agencies as well as terrorizing innocent citizens of the southeast in the name of agitation. He equally declared curfew in the state from 8:00pm to 6:00am, and, however, banned movement from all entrance and exit points in the state, stressing that anyone found violating the order will be arrested and prosecuted. According to him: “We have agreed that all native doctors in the state and traditional medicine dealers must within seven days today register with the Commissioner for Border Peace, with the Commissioner for Health and with the police. There will be executive order to this event and anyone that is caught doing otherwise will be arrested and will be prosecuted. “We are aware that there are some killings over the weekend; a policeman was killed, two soldiers were killed and I think one civilian and their killers are pure bandits. “They do these killings and put it on social media that they are members of IPOB or ESN. Without standing for either IPOB or ESN, but they continue to deny that they are not into violence but for me, criminality is criminality and I have directed security agencies to crackdown on all criminal activities in the state. “And for those who did the killings, the security agencies must bring them to book within 72 hours, they must do that. “We agreed that there is rampant fake news in Ebonyi state. Like today, somebody posted that herdsmen are in Ebonyi and they are killing people and schools started closing down, students and pupils started running helter skelter, is that what we will continue to tolerate? “And so, I have directed whether you are in opposition, whether you are in agreement, whatever thing you are, you should be tracked down so that you should be going to court to prove whatever thing you are putting forward. “We have directed that all wake-keep in the state must end by 6:pm and the local government Chairmen, security agents and Ebubeagu must enforce this. “All social activities must end by 6pm. When you defy this order, you will pay a minimum of N1million because a lot of hoodlum activities happen during this week-keep going into the night,” he stated.