The Katsina State Police Command has recovered several lethal weapons of mass destructions from notorious bandits who surrendered themselves willingly to the state Police Command. The notorious bandits who had unleashed countless mayhem across the state were reported to have willingly surrendered themselves and their weapons. “Two General Purpose Machine Guns, One AK 49 Assault Rifle, Twenty-three AK- 47 Assault Rifles, One hundred and nine (109) GPMG ammunition, Ninety-four 7.62mm live ammunition of AK 47 rifle and Forty-five (45) rustled cows,” were recovered. The report of the repentant bandits was disclosed to members of the press at the state police headquarters by the Commissioner of Police, Sani Buba, who was represented by the PRO and spokesman of the Police. The Police Commissioner addressing members of the press said, “I have the pleasure to welcome you to Katsina State Police Command Headquarters, to brief you on yet another important breakthrough made by the Nigeria Police Force.” Four of the repentant bandits’ leaders who terrorized the state from the Illeila forest of Safana LGA in Katsina State were reported by the spokesman of the Katsina Police Commissioner to include: Mani Turwa, Sani Mai Daji, Ado Sarki and Sale Turwa. The Chief of Police in the state boasted that “We are not begging or even persuading them to surrender.” He warned that the Nigeria security apparatus will deal ruthlessly with criminals and unrepentant bandits henceforth. “The Nigeria Police force and other sister security agencies will leave no stone unturned in isolating and dealing decisively with individuals and groups of unrepentant bandits who refuse to surrender and keep hibernating in the forests.” The Police Commissioner further assured residents and well-wishers that banditry in the state will soon be a thing of the past. “The Command wishes to assure the good people of the state that banditry and other crimes will soon become history.” The Police Commissioner said. Since December 2020, bandits have continued to unleash countless terrors on residence and institutions in Katsina State. Prominent among the several onslaughts by bandits was the abduction of about 344 students from Government Science Secondary School, a boarding school located in Kankara LGA of Katsina State last year December. Just last month it was reported that the state Governor Aminu Bello Masari reverted some Boarding schools to Day school as a result of the incessant threat posed by bandits to institutions of learning across the country. Also due to the nefarious activities and restlessness caused by bandits across the state and the country at large, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the Nigeria Security Agencies to shoot at sight anyone found with AK-47 in the bushes and forests. The President’s spokesman, Garba Shehu in an interview with BBC earlier last month said: “The president has ordered security forces to go into the bushes and shoot whoever they see with sophisticated weapons like AK-47.” Equally, Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari retracted the earlier decision of his government in 2020 to negotiate with the bandits for their failure to keep to the terms of the bargain. “The armed bandits have betrayed our trust in our quest to find a lasting peace in the state,” Masari was quoted to have said in a report.