Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Senate Committee on Special Duties, yesterday, questioned the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq on how the sum of N32.4 billion allocated to her office for palliative in the heat of COVID-19 pandemic was disbursed. The Minister in her response said only N2.4 billion was released to her Ministry from the N32.4 billion earmarked. 2. Fiery Catholic priest and Spiritual Director, Adoration Ministry Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), Ejike Mbaka, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to resign. The cleric called on the National Assembly to impeach the president if he failed to step down. 3. A former Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering in Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Prof. Osadolor Odia, was reportedly abducted by unknown gunmen yesterday in Edo State. 4. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday, sacked all board members/directors of First Bank Holding and First Bank Nigeria Limited. CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, announced this on Thursday when he addressed the media. 5. Former deputy president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, on Thursday, raised the alarm over worsening insecurity in the country. The lawmaker who spoke at the 10th Synod of the Anglican Diocese of Umuahia themed “Let us rebuild and end this reproach” said the country was falling apart very fast and burning to death. 6. Eleven suspected bandits and 183 cows have been arrested by the operatives of Amotekun Corps in Oyo State over criminal activities. Commandant of Amotekun Corps in the state, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd) stated this yesterday. 7. Former President, Goodluck Jonathan has urged the National Assembly to make laws that would strengthen local government councils, make them autonomous and be empowered to generate their revenues. Jonathan stated this when national and state executives of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) paid him a courtesy visit. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said he was disappointed and sad to hear Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, making several accusations against his person and his administration following the recent unfortunate incidents in the state. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu. 9. The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), yesterday said Nigeria is prioritizing innovation and technology investments in agriculture to transform the sector by attracting young people and scale up productivity. This was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande. 10. Former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, yesterday, condemned the violent attacks in many states of Nigeria. In a statement on Thursday, the All Progressives Congress (APC) leader said he was angered and troubled.