Members of the Osun Civilian Joint Task Force (Civilian JTF), Modakeke chapter, took to the streets of the ancient town on Tuesday to protest the alleged illegal alteration of names of their members who were earlier selected for the community policing initiatives of the federal government. The local para-military organisation alleged that investigations into the matter revealed that the Special Adviser to the Governor on Innovation, Science and Technology, Mr. Kareem Ismaeel, was behind the manipulation. The Commander of the Modakeke Division of Vigilante Group of Nigeria, Mr. Awodele Temitope, said, “about two weeks ago, I was reliably informed that the names submitted have been altered by some political leaders in the community. The people that were earlier screened and the name of those submitted are members of a different community voluntary security outfit. “I was also informed that the list was reduced to five as against the earlier eight, and the composition of the new list are people with no security backgrounds, but politicians; and they were said to have gone to training since Easter Monday for commencement of training. We can’t be securing the community during hard times, and get cheated at even the slightest opportunity.” The protesters visited the palace of the Ogunsua of Modakeke, incumbent and immediate past National Presidents of Modakeke Progressive Union, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) ‘B’ Division Police Headquarters and Chairman of the Youth Movement. Chief Gbadamosi, the Ekefa of Modakeke, on behalf of the Ogunsua-In-Council pleaded with the aggrieved security members and promised to make necessary findings and address the issues once and for all. In their responses, the Caretaker Committee Chairman of Modakeke Youth Movement and DPO promised to tackle the issue head-on and also assured that the needful would be done. The Joint Taskforce in its resolution had given the state government a three-day ultimatum after which a “sit-at-home” will be declared for all members, which might further pose a security threat to the ancient town. DAILY POST reliably gathered that the community also protested the alleged fraudulent activity to the Police Commissioner for Osun, CP Olawale Olokode. The Modakeke JTF Commander revealed that a total of sixteen special police constabularies were to be selected from each local government of Osun State, one of which Ife East Area Office was given eight vacancies to fill. He explained that the eight men have been screened by the B Divisional Police Officer, Modakeke, and their names sent to the State Government for due processes. In his reaction, the Special Adviser to the Governor, Kareem Ismaeel denied the allegation levelled against the government official and disclosed to DAILY POST that he neither influenced nor altered names of Civilian JTF selected for training.