The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, SOKAPU, has drawn the attention of the federal and Kaduna State governments to the plight of its people, allegedly abandoned, after unprovoked attacks, violence and destruction of their communities by Fulani militia. The SOKAPU spokesman, Luka Binniyat, in a statement said, thousands of indigenes spread across the 12 Local Government Areas of the state have been displaced as a result of the attacks. He alleged that for the second year running, large areas of the 26,000square kilometres which make up Southern Kaduna have been captured and is in the full control of armed Fulani herdsmen, as identified by surviving victims. SOKAPU said the captured areas were mostly the fertile, prestigious farmlands of people sacked from their lands. “The rains are about to start and the hope of these helpless victims returning to their homes to rebuild in preparation for the farming season seems bleak. In the same manner, thousands of their children have been out of school, some for over three years with the government not making any remedial effort to assist them.” The statement noted that in the IDP camps where some have managed to relocate, they live in sub-human conditions, barely able to feed, without sanitation and medications. “This is an indictment on the government as there is no excuse why citizens should be so forsaken by those they voted to protect them and make their welfare and security as basic rights. All men and women of conscience should also show interest in these displaced people who can be found in various IDP camps in Chikun, Zangon Kataf and Kajuru LGA, and in some areas bordering Kaduna state and Niger state, and some areas of Kaduna state bordering western part of plateau state,” the statement explained. The statement explained that there are at least 1,004 communities that have been displaced in Southern Kaduna after the natives have been attacked and several persons killed, adding that all churches and schools in affected areas have also been burnt, some dating back to 2018. The forum lamented that the numbers of displaced villages are increasing by the day especially, the Gbagyi villages in Chikun local government area. The forum explained that in Kachia local government area, the villages taken over by bandits, include Chikwale, Idum, Muruchi, Kwasau Legede, Kafeyawa, Amale, Chikwale, Unguwan Pa, Gidan Sambo, Gidan Para, Unguwan Muruchi, Unguwan Dutse, Baware kasa, Gidan Duna, Sabon Gida Duna, Opase, Gidan Sunday, Gidan Yarima, Gidan Auta, Bakin Garma, Gidan Ladan, Maigari, Gidan Wakili, Pago, Oshowodo, Gidan Peter, among others, according to a 2020 analysis. In Kajuru local government area, the villages taken over by bandits include Kihoro-Libere, Bakin Kogi, Umiko,Magunguna, Idazo, Ungwan , Galadima, Ungwan Guza, Etiss, Ungwan Ma’aji, Ungwan Dantata, Ungwan Araha 1 & 2, Ungwan Goshi, Ungwan Shaban, Ungwan Jibo, Ungwan Maijama’a, Ungwan Sako, Ungwan Maidoki, Ungwan Masaba In Chikun local government, villages like Kudo (Dau), Sunusi Dnakwala, Galu, Aguyita, Galuko, Galiwyi, Atopi, Onkoru, Anguwan, Badole, Manini, Hayin Damisa, Anguwan Nyako, Badimi, Gnashi, Sarari, Giji, Dnapagbe, Badimi, Shelbula, Rafin yashi, Sabongida, Rafinyashi, Anguwan, Amos Manini, Hayin Dakachi Manini, Madalla, Abon and Kawuya have all been taken over by the bandits. The forum alleged that Governor Nasir El-Rufai, nor his Deputy have ever visited any of the IDP camps or any attacked community in Southern Kaduna, pointing out that the state government has not given the people any form of palliative.