Some loyalists of Late Senator Buruji Kashamu have dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, saying they want former Governor, Ibikunle Amosun to be their leader. DAILY POST reports that the PDP defectors were received into the APC by Amosun at his Ibara, Abeokuta residence on Thursday. The PDP leaders, led by Chief Ibilola Solaja, held a meeting with Senator Amosun, pledging their support. Speaking on behalf of other decampees, Chief Olu Azeez from Ijebu North, told our correspondent in an interview that they chose to join the APC under Amosun’s leadership because it is the best option. Chief Azeez said he and other defectors were with Kashamu until his death, stressing that they have all decided to work with the former Governor as their leader. “I was a known leader of the PDP in Ijebu North. I was with late Senator Buruji Kashamu until his death. You know Kashamu was the one that was holding the PDP in Ogun State; but when there is no life, there’s nothing more anyone can do. So, we decided to join the moving train, which is the APC, under the former Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. “Before aligning with Amosun, we looked at what he did when he was the governor and we were so much impressed. I am an old man; I know how Abeokuta and the state in general used to be before he came to power, and when he came in, we know what he did,” Azeez said. Asked why they aligned with Amosun instead of the incumbent Governor, Dapo Abiodun, Azeez retorted: “Amosun is a leader in that party. He was known before Dapo Abiodun and he did well. I don’t have any grudge against any of them. In fact, I wish Gov Abiodun all the best in office. But to me, I know Amosun is the leader there, and he performed creditably well while in office as the governor.” On their expectations as new members of the APC in Ogun, the politician said, the decampees would continue to seek the progress of their new leader. “Once a leader is progressing, it will affect the followers. Our belief is that Amosun will become what we want him to become. I will not say anything yet. “When we are talking of politics, everybody would like somebody to be his own leader, we people went to meet Amosun because we love him. We want him to lead us and we will support him in anything at all that he wishes to do. “I believe that the APC has many chances, and it is now the only party any politician can join presently,” he submitted.