Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said that his administration will continue to work with the Nigeria Police and other security agencies to improve security in the state. Makinde made this disclosure on Tuesday while hosting the new Assistant Inspector General of Police, in charge of Zone XI, Osogbo, Olasupo Ajani in Ibadan. DAILY POST learnt that the visit of the AIG to Mr. Makinde was part of the AIG familiarization visit to the states in the zone. Makinde, who said that Nigeria is currently witnessing security challenges, however, explained that Oyo State is a little bit peaceful. He promised that his government will continue to prioritize the welfare of the officers and men of the Policemen in the state. He enjoined the AIG to call him at any time whenever he is in need of government assistance. Makinde said, “Also, at this time, we are faced with economic issues. So, if you have to do your work in the face of those challenges, it is almost like being hit twice because the work itself is difficult. When you have an atmosphere of economic prosperity, the people are not agitated but, now, any small thing, people are tensed up. “Anytime I am on the road, I witness road rage, aggression and all of that. These are not really normal because, for us, we used to be our brothers’ keepers. But a lot of people are tensed up and before you know what is going on, aggression is transferred. And when you now have to carry out your policing work within the context of these events, it becomes extremely difficult. So, we will continue to support you, show understanding and work with you through this challenging period. “I want to take this opportunity to, first of all, say thank you to the team from Osogbo; the Zonal Team and Osun State Command of the Nigeria Police. I was there for our zonal congress. Yes, it was quite challenging, because before the congress itself, the gist was that there will be bloodshed and everybody became apprehensive. “But the Zone and the Osun Command took complete charge and maintained a peaceful atmosphere for us and that made the congress to be adjudged the most peaceful zonal congress for PDP in the entire country. So, I take this opportunity to say thank you to the team. “For us in Oyo State, we are appreciative of the work that the Commissioner of Police is doing here. We operate like the same family. And everyone in my team here has shown commitment to work effectively. “Initially, during the End SARS protest, some said that I don’t like the Police but that is far from the truth because when it comes to internal security in this country, we don’t have an alternative. So, we will continue to work together. For the Zone also, I will work with the officers and men. “I am available every time. Do not hesitate to call me when you need our help. For us, we are not sparing any effort to keep our people safe and secure and we know that when you don’t have a lot to spend because of the economic situation, it is difficult to think of how to take care of the welfare of the people. “But I can assure that we will still prioritize the welfare of the officers and men of the Police Force working with us. We will also extend to the zone every now and then.”