Hiring a Nanny can be a good or bad decision and when it comes to making your choice, there are many factors to be considered. One which is seldom paid attention to, however, is health screening. Often, people give complaints such as “My Nanny keeps falling ill and always has to miss work” or the all too familiar story of employers not knowing that their nanny is pregnant. Medical Health Screening The truth is if you’re employing a Nanny or bringing anyone at all as a live-in staff in your home, you have a responsibility to know the person’s health status as it’s in the best interest of your family and that person. Most times, getting to know their status doesn’t rule them out from working for you; it only helps you with the knowledge of who you are hiring and how to get the best out of them. Knowing their health status also gives you the ability to get them medical care as required. Health Checks There are no limits to health checks when it comes to knowing the health status of your Nanny or any domestic staff. However, the health checks may differ depending on the role the person is taking up. For example, a driver will take slightly different tests from a Nanny who will be caring for your baby’s needs. Some of the health checks you should consider before hiring a domestic staff include but are not limited to: Hepatitis B (Hepatitis B can be transmitted through body fluids like saliva and blood) HIV Tuberculosis Pregnancy COVID-19 Tests (PCR or Antigen or Antibody tests)  Periodic Health Checks After knowing the health status of your Nanny or domestic staff, it is advisable to carry out periodic health checks at least every six months. This helps you discover developing health issues because some medical conditions may not be diagnosed until a few months after a negative test. Another important thing to note is that while you might have an initial health screening on your Nanny or domestic staff, you are not able to control where they go or what they do, as the line of Human Rights and not discriminating should not be crossed. If nannies are hired to cater to your children and keeping quite closely to them, they are equally at risk of whatever health threat the staff is exposed to. Generally, being vigilant and trusting our instincts play a role in hiring a Nanny and keeping domestic staff in our homes. Therefore, it is always advisable to get them screened before and after hiring them and when it comes to getting them screened, we’ve got you covered. Life Centre Medical Services boasts of a laboratory with state-of-the-art equipment and a team of experts who can give you the best screening tests and counsel for hiring your next nanny or keeping your present domestic staff. For appointments or more info, call +234 802 087 3597, +234 909 505 9596, +234 818 322 2220 or walk into any of our centers. Life Centre Medical Services Island: 13C, Kenneth Agbakuru Street, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos. Mainland: 42, Oduduwa Crescent, Ikeja GRA, Lagos.