The Director-General of Voice of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Okechukwu has lauded the Southeast Governors over their decision to establish a regional security network. DAILY POST reported that the governors during a meeting in Owerri, the Imo State capital, resolved to set up a security network named ‘EBUBEAGU’. Reacting to the development, Okechukwu, who spoke to journalists in Enugu on Monday commended the South East Governors “for adopting joint security network on the same page with the federal government on the issue of security challenges in the country.” He said he commends the governors “because they seem to be coordinating the local vigilante groups, Forest Gaurds in Enugu State, Homeland Security in Abia and similar outfits in other states and federal security agencies. This is noble as the general insecurity in the land is prelude to hunger, abject poverty and incessant killings. “With Ebubeagu security network, the Governors in conjunction with federal government stands a better chance in fighting terrorists and bandits to a finish. We need all hands on deck to stamp out kidnapping, banditry and all manner of insecurity in Nigeria.” Asked about the Eastern Security Network of IPOB as per Ebubeagu, Okechukwu quipped, “We can’t afford to throw away the baby and the bath water. Accordingly, IPOB in the collective interest of Ndigbo and the harmonious corporate existence of our dear country should dissolve Eastern Security Network forthwith. “We must rely on the Zikist maxim that no condition is permanent; therefore we cannot take harsh decisions because of the prevailing socio-economic conditions, as Ndigbo stands to benefit maximally anywhere in Nigeria when the harsh condition changes. Change it must, for change is constant.” On the phobia in certain quarters that regional security network like Amotekun and Ebubeagu may eventually lead to State Police, Okechukwu said, “whereas I am not opposed to State Police; however to strike the mean, there is need for the State Governors who will superintend over the State Police to adhere to the fine tenets of Executive Order 10, which gave life to Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” He explained that “Executive Order 10 is designed to fashion out strategies and modalities for the implementation of financial autonomy for the State Legislature and State Judiciary in compliance with section 121(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as Amended); taking into considerations all other applicable laws, instruments, conventions and regulations, which provides for financial autonomy at the State tier of government.” “Methinks that for State Police to obey the social contract between the people and state governors; Executive Order 10 becomes relevant to guarantee the independence of the State Judiciary and State Legislatures, plus local councils elected as stipulated in Section 7 of our Constitution. State Police under our dear Governors who act more or less like Emperors will be antithetical to the growth of democracy,” Okechukwu added.