Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, announced the appointment of DIG Usman Alkali Baba as the Acting Inspector General of police. The Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi made this known to State House correspondents on Tuesday. 2. The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) on Tuesday announced that its 2021 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for school candidates, earlier scheduled for May/June, may not hold. This was announced by the Council’s Head of National Office (HNO), Mr Patrick Areghan. 3. The presidency, yesterday, announced the death of President Muhammadu Buhari’s official driver, Sa’idu Afaka. He was said to have passed away at the State House Clinic on Tuesday after a prolonged illness. 4. The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) on Tuesday commenced an indefinite strike nationwide, shutting down the Nigerian Polytechnics. Leadership of the union led by its president, Anderson Ezeibe announced this on Tuesday while addressing newsmen in Abuja. 5. Barely 24 hours after the Imo State Correctional Centre and the State Police Headquarters were attacked on Monday, unknown gunmen on Tuesday attacked another police station in the state, freed suspects in detention and razed down the facility. 6. A family of five who were returning to their base in Abuja were on Tuesday, abducted by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers in Ondo State. The victims were returning from their home in Ondo State after the Easter celebration. 7. The plan of reviving the Port Harcourt Refinery and Petrochemical Complex (PRPC) was consummated on Tuesday in Abuja with an official agreement signing ceremony between the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the contractor, Maire Technimont SPA. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, approved Presidential Taskforce (PTF) on COVID-19 End-Term Review Report and transitioning of the task force to a Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 effective April 1, 2021, till 31st December 2021. 9. Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice (AGF), Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) on Tuesday, told a Federal High Court in Abuja that former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, is ineligible to run for president of Nigeria. Malami said Atiku is not qualified to be a Nigerian President because he was born in Jada, which was formerly part of Northern Cameroon. 10. Following the crisis currently rocking the country, the Christian Association of Nigeria on Tuesday berated President Muhammadu Buhari, describing him as incompetent. The President of the association, Samson Ayokunle stated this yesterday.