Residents of Dikwa town in Dikwa local government area of Borno State on Monday said not less than 40 Islamic State of West Province, ISWAP fighters were killed in 13 hours of battle with military, Sources among residents say the gunfight started on Sunday evening 18th April 2021 and ended on Monday morning 19th April 2012. The source informed that ISWAP fighters had occupied the town after residents and the military were withdrawn, giving the insurgents false assurance that they had captured the ancient town of Dikwa. “As the residents fled, soldiers also withdrew from the town in the night creating confidence in the militants who thought they were taking control, but we learnt that soon after the soldiers withdrew, fighter jets came and released fire on the terrorists living them scampering for safety in all directions. ” In the afternoon on Monday, while residents are gradually returning some to carry some necessary and personal belongings, we saw corpses being evacuated and some gun trucks belonging to the insurgents burnt and we learnt that over 40 ISWAP fighter were killed in the night battle.” The source insisted. Dikwa is about 90 km from Maiduguri, the Borno State capital and has suffered several attacks since the appointment of the new service chiefs early this year. In the last attack, both the Army Super Camp and United Nations hub were destroyed. Also corroborating the attack in Dikwa, the Army in a statement on Monday said troops of Operation Lafiya Dole currently carrying out Operation Tura Takaibango stationed at Dikwa and Gulumba Gana supported by the Air Component inflicted heavy casualty on Boko Haram Terrorists who attempted to take control of the strategic town of Dikwa, the headquarters of Dikwa LGA of Borno State. The statement from Brigadier General Mohammed Yerima, Director Army Public Relations said the terrorists in their numbers mounted on 12 gun trucks, attacked the town on the eve of Sunday 18 April 2021, just as the locals prepared to break their Ramadan fast for the day. “The troops having contained the initial wave of the attack had to occupy their alternative Headquarters at Gulumba Gana to enable the Air Component to engage any gun trucks and other technicals in the vicinity of the attack to prevent fratricide. “The troops launched a counter-attack in the early hours of Monday 19 April 2021 and successfully reoccupied their main headquarters in Dikwa. “The retreating terrorists suffered heavy losses in both equipment and personnel including some of their key leaders from the superior firepower of own troops both from the air and ground forces. “The troops are currently patrolling Dikwa town and environs to assess the level of damage inflicted on the terrorists.” The statement said.