The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has described the killing of a top commander of the Eastern Security Network, ESN, Ikonso Don as a disaster. DAILY POST reports that this was contained in a statement by the Secretary-General of the organization, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro. He said the killing had made Ikonso a martyr and further worsened the tensed security situation in the Southeast zone. Isiguzoro while questioning the circumstances surrounding the killing of the IPOB member, declared that “we have taken time to study the entire situation before issuing this statement and we feel that many questions are left unanswered. “There are strong counter claims that Ikonso was not killed during a gun duel contrary to the statement by security agencies. And our question is: why kill a man you have taken captive? Why did they not arrest and prosecute him in a court of competent jurisdiction? “So, we are questioning the circumstances surrounding his death. Ikonso should not have been killed. His death has huge consequences because he has been made martyr, a hero, you can even see that the IPOB said they have renamed the Imo Government House after him. “The escalation of violence we are witnessing in the Southeast now won’t be happening if they didn’t kill him. Southeast is now at the mercy of herdsmen and unknown gunmen.” He accused federal government forces of trying to recycle violence in the Southeast, wondering why the zone should be so militarized whereas people still moved freely in the Northeast. “Military action is not the solution, they should withdraw troops from the roads. What the Federal government must do at the moment is to give the Southeast governors all the support they need. We are not seeing it at the moment, federal forces are rather making things difficult for them. The governors should take the lead with the Federal government supporting them. “The Federal Government must also end all forms of marginalization of the Southeast, that’s why the youths are very angry. We have started the process of restoring peace, we are talking with all stakeholders, every party, but the Federal Government should stop aggravating matters.” He equally berated “Abuja politicians” from the zone, accusing them of keeping silent while the people were being slaughtered. “All of them have failed Ndigbo, they have not just refused to join in search for solution but are keeping grave silence. Even those of them close to the President are not telling him the truth. They have all relaxed in Abuja while their home is burning, but they must know that if this fire is not quenched, nobody will escape,” he cautioned.