The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, SOKAPU, has observed with concern that the widening of the corridor of terror and the creation of more ungoverned spaces in Kaduna State, particularly in Southern Kaduna, give residents sleepless nights. The forum recalled that the governor of Niger State, Abubakar Bello, had on Monday raised alarmed that part of Niger state has been captured by the Islamic extremist terror group, Boko Haram. He said that the group even hoisted its flag on a community called Kaure in Shiroro Local Government Area (LGA) of Niger state. SOKAPU spokesman, Luka Binniyat, lamented in a statement that this is consistent with the cry of SOKAPU that over 100 communities of Southern Kaduna have been captured and its inhabitants terrorised away after which the invaders (that surviving victims always identify as armed Fulani herdsmen) took over. The statement noted that the Adara and Gbagyi members of Kajuru and Chikun local Government Areas, who are the major ethnic groups in Kaduna Central Senatorial zone have suffered the most. The statement explained, “From the concerns of the governor, it would seem that these armed herdsmen may have formed an alliance with Boko Haram to step up the violence unleashed on Chikun LGA especially the huge swath of lands that connects Kuriga, Kunai, Chikun, and Kakau Wards in Kaduna State to Shiroro and Kuta LGAs of Niger state.” SOKAPU said it has severally mentioned in that since 2020, at least 45 Gbagyi communities in Chikun Local Government Area bordering Niger State have been captured and occupied by violent armed men. According to the statement, the list of sacked communities in Southern Kaduna that are contiguous to Kaure in Niger state are on the increase, saying that it took about two years to displaced the 45 earlier mentioned communities. The forum noted that in Chikun local government area and in Gwagwada ward, Katarma, Anguwa Tawal, Gudani, Kankona, Anguwa paymaster, Anguwa Pada, Kofa, kugosi, Five thirty, Jankasa, Kopi, kajari, Azongo, Madaki, Sabon Gida, Mandaki, Unguwa woya, kolipe were displaced within the past two weeks. In Kakau Ward, the statement explained that villages like Rimin Kaso, Kurmin Kaso, Shegi (Janwuriya) Kaso and Wakwo Kaso with an estimated number of IDPs here are about 15,000. It said these communities that have been captured and are under the full control of these criminals, when merged with the ones under the control of Boko Haram in Niger state, stressing that they are inching close to Kaduna metropolis, with communities of Kaso, which are their newest conquest, is about 3km from Mararaban Rido, a densely populated suburb of Kaduna town about 7km from Kaduna State Government House. The statement noted that the brazen impunity with which these outlaws operate is shocking and getting scarier, saying that hundreds of churches have been burnt or destroyed and abandoned in these areas. It explained that the number of persons killed or kidnapped in Southern Kaduna is too dizzying to keep a close tap on, apart from top government officials and their families that are guaranteed security in Kaduna state with everyone seems to hand his fate to the Almighty Creator. The statement lamented that Governor El-Rufai seems unperturbed, stressing that he has never visited any attacked community in Southern Kaduna nor send any form of relieve materials from 2015 till date. SOKAPU alleged that the inhuman policies and utterances of governor Nasir El-Rufai, the state is buckling down under the weight of insecurity and poverty, he (Governor Nasir el-Rufai) seems undisturbed about it, pointing out that he has ordered the mass sack of 4,000 local government staff in one fell swoop this month and is planning to sack more of the state civil service.