There is anxiety among people in Osun State over the deteriorating security in the State, as activities of hoodlums, thugs, miscreants, cultists, have been on the increase. This development has provoked bitterness among the members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who are now showing dissatisfaction on the Governor Gboyega Oyetola’s handling of security in the State. The Osun Progressives (TOP), a leading group in APC has now sent a letter to Oyetola. The group in the letter received by the office of the governor on Friday, April 9, described as deteriorating, the security condition in the State. DAILY POST recalls that incidents of violence and cult clashes have been reported in parts of Osogbo in the last few months. Attacks on Governor Oyetola At 2020 crossover party organised by the state government, some suspected thugs disrupted the event – throwing stones towards the direction of dignitaries including the governor, his wife, Kafayat Oyetola, and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr Charles Akinola. The event, which was held at the Nelson Mandela Freedom Park, Osogbo, ended abruptly some minutes to 1am. Consequently, during the EndSARS protest while the governor was addressing protesters in Osogbo, Oyetola was saved by his security men during the “assassination attempt” on his life at Ola-Iya in Osogbo. DAILY POST meanwhile, reported a faceoff between the governor’s convoy and a notorious thug, Kazeem Oyewale popularly called, ‘Asiri Eniba’ on Sunday January 17 at Old garage in Osogbo which has caused an uproar in the state. Letter to the Governor “We need to put on record that you, as the then Chief of Staff, described by your predecessor as the “engine room” of his administration was part of what brought about that success. It is however disturbing that the activities of hoodlums, thugs, miscreants, cultists etc, have been on the increase of recent,” the group noted. Signed by the chairman and secretary of the group, Isa Adesiji Azeez and Sodiq Olajide Maruf respectively, they recalled that Osun state had consistently been ranked within the first three positions in Nigeria since 2017 in peace index by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). “As members of the party in power, we are disturbed that the Governor has been subjected to direct attacks on a couple of times, which were capable of not just harming him but could claim his life. We must put on record the heroic efforts of the Governor’s personal security team in warding off such offensives, but we are of the opinion that the gargantuan security architecture of the Governor could do better by being proactive and prevent such ugly incidents. “We bring to the notice of the Governor, the recent kidnapping incidents in Iwaraja and Ibokun areas of the State, cult attacks in the core part of Osogbo which has rendered citizens helpless, and the gruesome killing of six members of a family at a Fulani settlement beside Wasinmi village, along “Ikire/ladan expressway. This has had some corrosive effects on the lives of the people who always think they can go to sleep with their two eyes closed. “The March 28th attack on the Personal Assistant to your predecessor who is the current Minister of Interior, Mr. Olateju Adunni gives us reason to feel sad and we are afraid of what may be coming. By his account, which we believe your honour must have read, he doclared it was an assassination attempt on him as declared by the assailants themselves. “The curious issue in his narration was that the venue of the attack was populated by APC stunts and members who were invited to celebrate the birthday of an honourable member: So, the whole event, the birthday party and the attack was that of APC. “What could have provoked it? Have we gotten to a point in APC whereby differences will be settled by assassination? If we do this to ourselves, who says the opposition PDP cannot Jatched onto it and deal with us severely? We refer to some intra APC attacks that has happened in recent times and we wonder if we have morality to still refer to the PDP as the nest of killers, that we use to describe them. “It is these dark spots in our state security, hitherto known as the haven of peace that we want to humbly request your honour’s quick response that will return us to our top notch peace situation. We are approaching elections and insecurity will be a challenge difficult to contain if we don’t nip these seemingly little things in the bud. “We suggest that it will be necessary to ensure that the security breaches are investigated and perpetrators brought to book so as to forestall a repeat. The case of Olateju will be good enough a case study to use in that regard,” the letter stated.