Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammad Dingyadi, yesterday announced the deployment of the new Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) operatives to state commands. He disclosed this on Friday. Nigerians had earlier protested against the special team. 2. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom yesterday appealed to the military authorities to ceasefire in the ongoing operation in parts of Konshisha Local Government Area of the State. The army had allegedly killed scores of resident of the troubled community in the Local Govt over the death of its officers. 3. Prince Philip, husband of Queen Elizabeth II, died yesterday at the age of 99 years. The Duke of Edinburgh died on Friday at Windsor Castle in England. 4. The newly appointed Acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, yesterday appointed AIG Hafiz Inuwa, as the Force Secretary and member of the Force Management Team. 5. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State on Friday, placed a ban on the planned meeting of some Igbo residents in Oyigbo Local Government Area of the state. The Governor’s decision was due to fears that such meetings could spark fresh unrest in the LGA. 6. Unknown gunmen in Isan-Ekiti, Oye Local Government Area of Ekiti State, yesterday, kidnapped a petrol dealer, Mr Itakorode Adebayo. Itakorode is the general manager of Prosperous Filling Station, located at Isan-Ekiti, hometown of the state governor, Kayode Fayemi. 7. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday, maintained that the IPOB would not be intimidated by the threat from the new Acting IGP, Alkali Usman of a clamp-down on its members and other pro-Biafra activists. The IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, stated this on Friday while reacting to the warning. 8. Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammad Dingyadi, on Friday said gunmen overpowered men of the Imo State Police Command on Monday because they came with heavier weapons and in large numbers. 9. The two cities most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic – Lagos and Abuja – have begun shutting down isolation centres as Nigerians have snubbed the medical facilities. Some of the centres have discharged their last patients. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 71 fresh cases of COVID-19 in 9 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded cases of COVI-19 in the country to 163,652.