Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Nigerian military suffered some losses on Sunday during an attack by ISWAP terrorists in Mainok community, Borno State. The attack followed the fierce battle at Geidam, Kumuya and Buni Gari in Yobe State. 2. The Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) yesterday, announced the postponement of the 2021 Mock Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Fabian Benjamin, Head, Public Affairs made this known in a statement. 3. Gunmen suspected to be bandits on Sunday, invaded a Baptist Church in Chukun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing at least one worshiper, injured scores, while about four others were kidnapped. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige confirmed the incident. 4. Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen, during the weekend, attacked Tse-Ayeli village, Tse-Gborigyo and Udam in Mbayer-Yandev in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State killing at least 17 persons. 5. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday said God has a promise for Nigeria. Osinbajo made the expression while delivering a speech at the ongoing 108th annual convention of the Nigerian Baptist Church at the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. 6. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday, lauded the performance of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, saying he has done well in office. Obasanjo spoke on Sunday when he laid the foundation stone for the N3.4 billion nine-span flyover in Sokoto. 7. The Kano State Governor, Umar Ganduje, yesterday revealed that the state government destroyed over N1bn worth of illicit drugs. The governor spoke while the drugs were being destroyed. 8. The members of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) have vowed to continue with their ongoing industrial action except their demands are met, in line with an MoU signed by all the Governors and Speakers of the 36 States of the federation. 9. Eight security operatives were reportedly gunned down by unknown armed men, in Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State on Sunday morning, along the Omagwa/Isiokpo/Elele Owerri road, in the area. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Nnamdi Omoni, a Superintendent of Police (SP), confirmed the incident. 10. The Lagos State Government, yesterday said no fewer than 700,000 people are being diagnosed annually with malaria disease in the state. Prof. Akin Abayomi, health commissioner said this in a statement, in Lagos on Sunday.