No fewer than three persons have reportedly been killed in Rafinkada, a Taraba community, by suspected bandits. The bandits according to residents gained access to the community in Wukari local government council, from neighbouring Benue State. The tragedy is coming shortly after a recent windstorm destroyed goods worth millions of naira in the community. The attackers were said to have killed two women and an elderly man in the community. The attack which residents say has frustrated the peace efforts of Governor, Darius Ishaku, has also generated speculations of reprisals if steps are not taken to end the impasse. An eyewitness who claimed to have narrowly escaped the violence said the attackers stormed the village in their numbers, in the early hours of the day, on motorbikes, shooting sporadically. Apart from the killings, several other persons were said to have sustained various degrees of gunshot injuries. The bandits’ attack is coming barely two weeks after three farmers were gruesomely murdered in their farms located in the same local government council while working in their farms. Several sources from the affected community who spoke to DAILY POST said the situation has forced some residents out of their homes in search of refuge elsewhere. As of the time of filing this report, the whereabouts of some community members who fled for their lives, are still yet unknown Another anonymous source told our correspondent that his mother and younger brother were both killed during an attack. “As I am talking with you now, we are preparing their bodies for burial,” he said. Sad that the situation may get out of hand if not timely addressed, indigenes who say they are worried that several peace accords by the leadership of both states have witnessed setbacks, called on the federal government to intervene. The Wukari Council Chairman, Daniel Adi, expressed sadness at the attack which he ascribed to “Tiv militia from Benue state ” Worried that the peace moves of Governor Ishaku have not been allowed to see the lights of the day, he pleaded with the people of his council to remain calm as there is an ongoing collaboration with the security outfits to fish out the perpetrators. Also confirming the attack, the Taraba State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, said the command is aware of the development and that efforts to track down the perpetrators are in place.