Reactions have continued to trail the death of the National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Mr Yinka Odumakin who died on Saturday morning at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. Joining other mourners, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom described Odumakin’s death as shocking and painful. Governor Ortom who sent his condolence through a statement issued on Saturday by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said the demise of Mr Odumakin “is the end of an illustrious career marked by objectivity and patriotism”. The governor noted that Odumakin was a voice of reason and a respected human rights activist whose contributions during the days of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), leading to the country’s return to civil rule in 1999 will always be remembered. Governor Ortom recalled the “dogged stand of Odumakin against herdsmen attacks on innocent people in Benue and other parts of the country when he fearlessly spoke truth to power calling for justice and insisting that all Nigerians should be treated as citizens with equal rights and privileges”. He consoled the bereaved family, the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF). The governor also prayed to God to grant the deceased eternal rest. Similarly, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA while reacting to Odumakin’s demise, described the death as “a dreadful political earthquake whose negative impacts will be far-reaching and unfortunate” According to HURIWA, the “demise of one of the few most outspoken supporters of zoning of the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the South East in 2023 is very traumatizing and disastrous”. Meanwhile, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, in his reaction, said late Yinka Odumakin is a gifted soul and dependable personality. He said the demise has depleted the Yoruba nation. In a statement by his media aide, Kehinde Aderemi, Adams said he received the news of Odumakin’s death with shock and trepidations, describing it as a big loss to the Yoruba nation.