Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Following the anti-Buhari protest led by the former presidential aide, Reno Omokri at the Abuja House in London, the supporters of the president also embarked on a solidarity rally at the venue yesterday. Meanwhile, Reno alleged that the supporters were bribed with £75. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, condemned the attack on the Police Command Headquarters and the Correctional Facility in Owerri, Imo State, on Monday. Buhari in a statement by Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media & Publicity, described the attack as an act of terrorism. 3. The Abia State Government, on Monday, announced the imposition of a 10pm to 6am curfew in Aba and Umuahia metropolis indefinitely to curtail the rising insecurity in the area. The announcement was contained in a statement issued yesterday by the Commissioner for Information, John Kalu. 4. The National Association of Resident Doctors has ordered doctors at the COVID-19 isolation centres to join the nationwide strike which began on April 1, stressing that failure to adhere to the directive would attract N5 million fine. 5. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu yesterday, invited the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) to an emergency meeting following the threat to embark on another round of strike. In a statement by the commission’s Director Press and Public Relations, Ben. Bem Goong, the meeting is to hold Tuesday (today). 6. The Kaduna State Government yesterday, announced that five of the 39 students abducted from the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation Afaka in Kaduna have been regained freedom. This was contained in a statement issued by the state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan. 8. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has debunked rumours that the wreckage of its missing fighter jet and body of one of the missing pilots have been found at Bama, Borno State. Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, described the report as misleading. 9. The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) has directed its members across the country to shut down courts nationwide beginning from today. The directive, as contained in a statement, followed the inability of the government to implement Financial Autonomy for the Judiciary. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 135 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 11 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The health agency made this known via a tweet on its verified Twitter account.