Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has expressed optimism that truth concerning the state would not be buried for so long as Christ, the true son of God could not be held bound by the grave. Gov. Emmanuel who made the assertion in his Easter broadcast on Sunday, April 4, 2021 in Uyo said his administration is anchored on the leadership of Jesus Christ and would not be deterred by those who peddle falsehood on social media to frustrate his adminstration as well as demarket the State. He, however, described Easter as a symbol of love, hope, renewal, and sacrifice and harped on the need to place the common good above common greed stressing, “we should use this season to heal ourselves of all selfish instincts, spirit of division and rabid ethnicism “It is a refreshing reminder that you can put truth in the grave, but you cannot keep it there forever.” He, however, recalled the achievements so far made by his administration particularly the recent ones which included the construction of Sterling Petrochemical Plant in Eastern Obolo, obtaining licence from the Federal Executive Council, (FEC)for the construction of Ibom Deep Seaport. Signing an MoU for the establishment of a 1.4 billion dollar Fertilizer, Ammonia plant with their Moroccan counterparts as well as launching of emergency on education sector. The governor congratulated Ibom Air, for the recent award as the best Airline of the Year, 2020 and also, the Five Hundred Thousand passenger haul record it recently attained promising to add two brand new airbuses to its fleet The statement in parts, “It is regrettable that some people still play politics with the development of our State and would go on the social media to de-market the State and her leadership. They should know that truth cannot be buried. Nigerians are watching and are seeing the great strides that are going on in our State, hence the accolades we are receiving everywhere. It is sad that while other Nigerians are celebrating our achievements, this tiny section of our people are busy spreading falsehood, malice and hate all motivated by politics. “Let me also remind our people that the essence of Easter would be lost except we let the resurrection of Christ illuminate the dark crevices of our souls and let His light shine through us in love and sacrifice to our neighbours. Jesus said John 13:35 “By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.” “I urge all Akwa Ibom people to adhere to this simple directive from the Commander of our Divine Mandate and our Saviour, the resurrected Jesus Christ. Let the fishermen in the ocean fronts of Mbo, Okobo, Eastern Obolo and Ibeno love one another. Let ttations at Ini, Ikono, Ika, ONNA and Nsit Ibom love one another. Let the civil servants and public servants, politicians in all political parties, members of all denominations, preachers of all faiths, love one another. “When we let love drive our every action and every thought, when we let it drip from our lips and from our hands, then shall the joy of Easter be complete, and our State shall surely attain the lofty height set for it by our ancestors when they named it Akwa Abasi Ibom State (God’s own State.)”