The Anambra State Police Command has arrested five suspects for alleged involvement in cultism, armed robbery and impersonation. The spokesperson of the state police command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga who disclosed the arrest in a press release said arms were recovered from the suspects. He said, “Operatives successfully arrested five male suspects for the offences of unlawful possession of firearm, cultism, spying and impersonation. “The Command also recovered two (2) firearms with ammunition of different calibres and one suspected military cap.” Ikenga quoted the Commissioner of Police Anambra State Police Command, CP Monday Bala Kuryas as charging operatives of the command to sustain and increase the tempo on the onslaught against crime in the State. He gave a breakdown of the arrests as, “On 22nd, April 2021, at about 4:30pm, the combined patrol of Police Operatives from Awada Divisional Headquarters with the Vigilante Operatives arrested Ifeanyi Eze, aged 22years, Okeke Arinze, 22years and Ezeugo Friday 25years. “All suspects are male and a locally made double barrel gun, two live cartridges, six live English pistol ammunition and two live berretta pistol ammunition, were recovered. “The suspects were arrested when they drove in a suspected manner in a motorcycle without a plate number along Ugwuagba. Further revelations led to the arrest of their gang leader along Okpoko and efforts are being intensified to arrest other fleeing members. They have confessed to being members of a deadly criminal gang. “Similarly, Police Operatives attached to Awada divisional headquarters on 24th April 2021 at about 4:30pm arrested one Uchenna Igwe ‘M’ aged 20years, recovered one locally-made revolver pistol, two live AK 47 ammunition and four expended AK 47 ammunition. “At the time of his arrest, Uchenna Igwe was with two gang members along CT Biscuits Owerri road by Mgbuka market and on sighting Police Operatives on patrol, took to their heels. Efforts are in top gear to arrest the two other gang members.” Ikenga added that “In another development, Police Operatives attached to Anti-Cultism unit, at about 6pm on 24th of April, 2021 arrested one Uzodimma Emmanuel ‘M’ aged 23years, a native of Uturu, Isukwuato L.G.A., Imo State and recovered a military cap He was arrested spying on Special Anti-Cultism Squad (SPACS) Headquarters, Enugu Ukwu. “The suspect when accosted could not give a satisfactory answer and claimed to be a lance corporal with the Nigerian Army.”