Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel has named Manchester City and Bayern Munich as teams setting the ‘benchmark’ in Europe. Man City faces Chelsea in the semi-final of the FA Cup at Wembley at the weekend, as Pep Guardiola’s side is also on the verge of winning the Premier League title. City also made it to the semi-finals of the Champions League on Wednesday and will face Paris Saint-Germain for a place in the final. Tuchel still rates Bayern Munich as one of the two best teams in Europe along with Manchester City despite the German’s crashing out to Paris Saint-Germain in the quarter-final. Tuchel also vowed to hunt Manchester City from the first day of the 2021/22 season and challenge them for titles. “In Europe, for me, there are two teams that are the benchmark: Manchester City and Bayern Munich,” Tuchel told the press ahead of FA Cup semi-final clash with Man City. “We have to accept there is a gap between us and Manchester City. If you look at the fixtures in the last few years we have to accept them, but without making us feel too small. “Man City are on the verge of winning the Premier League (Picture: Getty) ‘From day one of next season we will hunt them and try to close the gap. “I don’t think these teams are chess teams,’ Tuchel said. “English football, City’s game, our game is about intensity without the ball. So I expect a high-intensity match, Tuchel said, as Chelsea reaches first Champions League semi-final in seven years “City define themselves with a clear DNA and style. They want the ball and high ball recoveries. We want that too so we have to fight for these moments and make them suffer. “We are in a good moment. We had a setback against West Brom but we had an excellent response. “We had tough challenges to face and we did two very good, intense matches. It was a good challenge against Porto. “If we manage to beat Manchester City it will be a huge boost. If not we will have to take it as a challenge and opportunity to grow because we have big fights coming up.