The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has asked the people of the region to put more efforts towards economic development and security of the zone.
In a statement by the Secretary-General of the Chidi-Ibeh led Ohanaeze, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, he urged politicians in the zone to play down on Igbo presidency contest at the moment. The Ohanaeze scribe said the much ado about Igbo presidency was distracting elected leaders in the zone from performing the functions of their office, and as such should be put on hold. Isiguzoro said this was the time to engage the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government into fulfilling most of his promises to the zone, especially in the area of economic advancement. “We recall that during the electioneering campaign, President Buhari pledged to revamp Enugu Coal mining. He also made a remarkable promise in the area of sea port in Abia State. “There is the urgent need for the revamping of Enugu coal mine, realization of Enyimba Economic city, and citing of deep sea port in Akwette Blue River, 15km to Atlantic ocean. “These three projects hold the keys to unlock the economic potentialities and development of Southeast. We are already two years into the end of this administration and these have not been realized. “So, we are calling on Igbo Ministers in Buhari’s administration to take this matter up with the President. Specifically, we are urging Rotimi Amaechi, Uche Ogah and other ministers of Igbo extraction to make sure that these projects are prioritized. “The benefits that will accrue to Ndigbo on the realization of these projects are monumental. Apart from massive jobs that would come with it, the economy of the zone would also improve tremendously. “Ohanaeze is championing ‘Aku di na ulo’, (untapped resources) and ‘Aku ruo ulo’, (think home philosophy), Abia and Enugu States hold the key. “We are all aware that the reason most of our youths are restive is because they feel abandoned, no job, no welfare scheme. These issues must be addressed for the peace and progress of the Southeast and the country in general,” he said. He, however, hailed Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and Okezie Ikpeazu of Enugu and Abia States, respectively, noting that “these two governors have consistently been paying workers’ salary promptly. They are honest Igbo leaders and we will continue to hold them in high esteem. “Payment of salary is not something to be taken lightly and that is why we are proud of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and Okezie Ikpeazu. We urge them to keep it up and others should emulate them.”