No fewer than 1000 supporters of former Governor, Abdulaziz Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa from Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara State have dumped the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) and embraced the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The decampees were yesterday evening received earlier by the PDP State Chairman, Alhaji Tukur Umar Danfulani Maikatako who later presented them to Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle at his residence in Gusau, the state capital. The leader of the decampees, Comrade Abdullahi Danda Bungudu said they were at the Governor’s residence to register their support as they had declared their defection earlier at the state PDP Secretariat and were received officially by the state Party Chairman, Alhaji Tukur Umar Danfulani. Comrade Danda further stated that the reason they defected from APC to PDP was due to the way and manner the Governor handled the security situation in the state and the many laudable projects he is executing in less than two years of being in office. He observed that it is on record that before the coming of Matawalle’s administration, Zamfara State residents were in a serious war with bandits which almost destroyed the state to a failed one as all government machineries were not working. Bungudu, however, averred that the vision and foresight of Governor Matawalle and his style of leadership changed all that and convinced them to join the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from their former political party, APC. Responding, Governor Matawalle said his administration was determined to bring development to the people of the state at all levels with a view of making the state more secured and economically viable. He further said, “as a leader, my primary responsibility is to protect the lives and property of the citizens including their dignity for the coming generations.” Matawalle assured them of equal treatment in the party and also commended their foresight and positive decision of joining his party, the PDP for the purpose of developing Zamfara State collectively. The Governor added that with people of their calibre in the party, he is sure that a lot will be achieved. Notable among those who defected were Comrade Abdullahi Danda Bungudu, Alhaji Adamu Abu Samawa and Alhaji Abbas Abdullahi Bela who was the current Vice chairman of APC in Bungudu Local Government.