The Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) has said that the justice system in the country was gradually sliding into a destructive dungeon. The committee of chairmen of the eight bar branches in Anambra State stated this during a press conference on Friday on the heels of the ongoing strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN). The committee said the over dependence of the judicial arm of government on the executive is killing the justice sector, adding that this is capable of breeding anarchy in the country. Barrister Kingsley Awuka, chairman of NBA in Nnewi and chairman of the committee of chairmen of NBA branches in Anambra who briefed journalists on behalf of the committee called for caution on the part of the executive. “The Committee of Chairmen of the branches of NBA in Anambra State is worried about the ongoing nation-wide strike action embarked upon by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) which has now lasted for more than one week with no hope of its end in sight. “The Governors of the 36 states of Nigeria have deliberately subjected the judicial arm of government to their subservient appendage. This grossly unconstitutional situation has in turn eroded the autonomy and independence of the judiciary and led to infrastructural and human resource deficit. “The justice sector of our country is progressively sliding into the destructive dungeon with no hope in sight of its recovery,” the committee lamented. The group read out a resolution, backing JUSUN in the strike, pledging to support her in the action, including mobilising a protest that would compel government to listen to their cries, if the right thing was not done. “The committee fully lends its support to the demands of JUSUN and shall sustain this support until the demands are met. “The committee calls on all the 36 state governors of the federation, particularly the Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, to immediately commence the implementation of the provisions of the constitution as it relates to the financial autonomy of the Judiciary. “The committee urges the Executive Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, to ignore the decision of the Governors’ Forum and immediately commence the implementation of the constitutional provisions relating to the financial autonomy of the Judiciary in Anambra State,” the group said. It wondered why a budget would be passed, and monies appropriated for the three arms of government, but the executive would want the heads of the judiciary to abandon their work and come pleading with them for the release of funds.