Some Nigerians have kicked against the UK’s Asylum visa option for members of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB. Recall that the UK visas and Immigration (UKVI) released new guidelines on how to consider and grant asylum applications to members of Biafran secessionist groups to its embassy staff. Asylum is to be granted to “persecuted” members IPOB and MASSOB, the guideline said. But the Nigerian government immediately condemned the decision by the UK, alleging it was sabotage on the fight against insecurity. Some Igbos and Nigerians reacting on social media rejected UK’s offer, insisting that Biafrans need a referendum and not asylum. Some described the offer as a blow to President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @Anayo_El “ I support Referendum not Asylum to IPOB and MASSOB. All of us can’t leave our land to a foreign land.” @ChiUkwu2 “ UK and Nigeria Governments think they are smarter and plotting to use Asylum to destroy Biafra Agitation now they know IPOB are more Serious. “They should understand that Biafrans love their lands and can never fall for any enticement such as Asylum which is their last game.” @Ugobueze “ All we need is Referendum.” @Funshographix “Britain so love the Igbo people that they want to give Asylum to IPOB but not Biafran Nation. Hypocrite of the highest order.” @RealOduah “Decision by the British government to give political asylum to IPOB and MASSOB members is a major diplomatic victory for the separatist organizations and a major blow to the Buhari regime. Coming from the biggest foreign supporter and enabler of the Nigerian state. A major volte-face! @General_Somto “ UK Asylum to IPOB is like the devil giving you a gift with his right hand and collecting it back with his left hand. We Biafrans are not destitute and We’re not running away from our land of heritage neither are we scared of defending our territory. We need REFERENDUM Not Asylum! “Ask the UK government offering asylum to IPOB If they are prepared to give asylum to over 50 million Biafrans persecuted and oppressed every day in Nigeria. Biafrans need FREEDOM, not Political Asylum. We can’t be a refugee in another man’s country while abandoning our own lands.” @OfiliChukwuma “ We are not asylum seekers in our fatherland and elsewhere! All we need is a referendum.” @Johniky5 “ UK is not our home Biafra is our home, give us freedom not asylum. IPOB wants to be free from a terrorist country called Nigeria, not Asylum.” @IamWytunes “Same FG that loves granting amnesty to terrorists is angry that the UK wants to grant ordinary asylum to IPOB members? Your hatred for Ndigbo shall be your undoing! @Uncle_Ajala “ FG says UK’s decision to grant asylum to IPOB members is disrespectful. The president going for a medical check-up in the UK isn’t disrespectful to FG? If FG thinks only IPOB will jump on this offer with the way Nigeria is becoming unbearable for the masses, the joke is on FG.” @Jino389 “ UK we need Referendum, not asylum.” @QED “ Anyone asking for a referendum under Buhari’s Government is building castles in the air. IT CAN NEVER HAPPEN!!