Hon. Abdullahi Sani Dan-Azumi, the Zamfara State youth leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) was apprehended by the operatives of the state police command in Gusau, the state capital on Thursday. According to a source from the APC state Headquarters in Gusau, the youth leader was arrested over a viral video. “In the video Dan-Azumi threatened that anyone that had a hand in the prosecution and molestation of former Governor Abdul Aziz Yari would either die, lose his position or suffer badly,” the source said. DAILY POST reports that there are speculations that Dan Azumi may likely be prosecuted at Sharia Court in Samaru for charges of public disturbance. Our correspondent reliably learnt that the youth leader has been at the custody of the CID undergoing interrogation by the security operatives. A chieftain of APC alleged that the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Nura Ibrahim Zarumi has ordered the Samaru Court to be open despite the fact that there is an ongoing strike by JUSUN, just to make sure that the youth leader was prosecuted and detained in prison. When contacted, Zarumi said he was concerned about members of the Judicial Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) that are on strike, not the Sharia judges. “It was the police that arrested the APC youth leader based on their own reason and not the state. Either myself or my ministry have no hands in the issue. “The police investigators have the right under the law to arrest any person alleged to have committed any crime. “After the arrest of the suspect, they have power to investigate the allegation against that particular person. “However, under the law, specifically Nigerian Constitution, they cannot detain a suspect above 48 hours and as such where they cannot conclude their investigation within the stipulated 48 hours, they have the option. “In the case of Zamfara the section 128 of the Sharia Penal Code has empowered the police to apply to a sharia court for an order of detention of the accused but not above 15 days. “The Sharia court judge has the legal right to grant or deny the request by the police in respect of the charges against the youth leader,” he said. Zarumi urged Zamfara APC to count him out of their debacle and face their issue with the police. However, the former Attorney General of Zamfara and APC legal Adviser Barr. Bello Umar noted that the charges against the APC youth leader in Zamfara is that of inciting public disturbance and by law it is a bailable offense. “It is unfortunate that despite all attempts to secure the release of the accused person on bail the police refused the request for reasons best known to them,” he stated. He said there were people on ground ready to receive him on bail and produce him any time requested but the police were making things difficult.