The Kaduna Police Command has rescued 15 kidnapped victims along Buruku – Brinin Gwari road in Brinin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The command Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, in a statement, explained that, “On the 8th April, 2021, at about 1525hrs, unknown gunmen suspected to be bandits in large number bearing dangerous weapons blocked Buruku – Birnin Gwari road around Unguwan Yako forest in an attempt to kidnap the occupants of two (2) Volkswagen vehicles. “One with Reg. No. AE 355 EDE while the other unregistered. A swift response by the Operatives of the Kaduna Police Command forced the marauding bandits to retreat and flee into the forest with bullet wounds, abandoning their victims.” The statement further explained that the operatives searched the entire area and successfully rescued fifteen (15) victims, namely; Salaha Abdulsalam, Muhammad Yusuf, Fatima Saidu, Aisha Abdullahi and
Firdausi Rabiu. The rest are Sakina Yakubu, Basiru Murtala, Nasiru Umar, Nafiu Umar, Al-amin Yakubu, Ibrahim Rabiu, Nusaiba Rabiu, Shafiu Yakubu, Rufai Samaila (driver) and Bala Shehu (driver). According to the statement, the drivers, Rufai Samaila and Bala Shehu sustained varying degrees of injuries and are currently receiving treatment, adding that the remaining victims have been profiled and subsequently reunited with their respective families. In another development, the command said on the 8th April, 2021, at about 0500hrs the Command received an intelligence report through DPO Kasuwan Magani, stating that some armed bandits were sighted around Dutsin Gaya village of Kajuru Local Government Area, moving large herds of cattle strongly suspected to be have been rustled. It explained that the Command on getting the information, Operatives were mobilized to the area, engaged the bandits in a fierce gun battle which forced the bandits to take to their heels with bullet wounds while the operatives recovered Thirty Two (32) rustled cows. The Kaduna Police Command wished to assure the general public of its relentless effort in securing public space and to create an enabling environment for legitimate business to thrive in the state.