A socio-political group, Amalgamated Atiku Support Group has lambasted the Attorney General of the Federation AGF, Abubakar Malami SAN for allegedly casting aspersions on the Nigeria citizenship of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar. The group accused Malami of being blinded by his ambition for the 2023 Presidency by insinuating that Atiku is not eligible to vie for the exalted office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In a statement by its Director of Media, Remi Adebayo, the group said it was laughable for a Chief Law Officer of the federation to behave the way Malami did on the citizenship of Atiku. The statement reads “In accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Attorney General of the federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami is expected to be the Chief Law officer of the entire nation. “As the Attorney General of the Federation, it becomes a huge source of concern when the occupant of the exalted office is acting as if he is the Attorney General of the ruling APC. “For Malami to join the suit filed by a hurriedly put together group known as Trustees of Egalitarian Mission for Africa (EMA) begs the question as to what the interest of Malami the AGF is. “The suit before the court challenging the citizenship of Atiku Abubakar, it would be recalled, has been exhaustively dealt with by the Court of Appeal and same affirmed by the Supreme Court at the final judgment during the Presidential election petition tribunal. “It is therefore laughable and inconceivable to see the Attorney General of the Federation putting his weight behind such an exercise in futility. “For the avoidance of doubt, Atiku’s Nigeria’s citizenship is a settled matter and anything contrary to that is a figment of Malami’s warped imagination. “However, it must be expressly stated that Malami’s action is predicated on his ambition to run for the office of the President to take over from Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. “This inordinate ambition of Malami can be glimpsed from how desperately he moved against some of his own party men who have indicated interest to run against him in the APC, but ultimately, Atiku Abubakar is seen as the biggest threat hence this heinous move to stop the former Vice President. “But we have no doubt that this plot shall fail. Malami’s belief that he can use his position as the chief law officer and the instrumentality of the courts to achieve his vaulting ambition will also collapse on his face. “We urge the courts not to allow itself to be a pawn in the hands of AGF Malami, even as we ask Nigerians to speak up and rise against this evil machination as it is capable of denying them (Nigerians) the much-needed good governance that would be brought by Atiku Abubakar when God willing he is elected into the office of the President come 2023”.