The Adamawa State Government has expressed worry about lack of compliance with COVID-19 restrictions and announced renewed commitment to enforce the restrictions. This is coming following identification of a new variant of the COVID-19 virus and directives by the Presidential Task Force on the disease. The state government which said this, added that its renewed focus is a search for what the government can do to intensify things to bring the rate of infections down. In a statement issued Monday evening by Press Secretary to Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, Mr Humwashi Wonosikou, the government reiterated that extant measures to reduce transmission which include wearing of face masks, social distancing, washing of hands, and restrictions on public gatherings as earlier stipulated in March 2020 have not been adhered to by the people. The government also reminded the people that restriction of movement from 10pm to 5am is still in force and that social gatherings of more than 50 people at a time are also still in force. “The general public is hereby called upon to adhere strictly to the provisions of the guidelines namely; Compulsory use of face masks in any public gathering or public transport. Social distancing in any gathering. Ensure washing of hands and use of sanitizers. “Hospitality businesses such as Clubs, Cinema halls, Event centres, Conferences and Congresses and other similar gatherings with population beyond 100 remain banned. Leaders at Worship centres are advised to ensure use of face masks by all, while ensuring social distancing,” the government stated. The government particularly warned that “Any club, event centre or business premises so directed found contravening this rule will be closed down”. It said it was “of the view that we should not wait, as happened earlier, for this virus to again spiral out of control before taking action. “The world is facing a surge in Coronavirus cases and hospital admissions, We want people to follow the rules in order to avoid stricter measures which look increasingly likely.” It assured however that it would ensure that all health facilities are prepared and ready to handle any eventualities.