Boko Haram elements from the ISWAP faction on Friday engaged the Nigerian military in a four-hours battle to take control of Dikwa Local Government Area in Borno State, northeast Nigeria. DAILY POST gathered that the gun battle, which started at about 6:00pm, lasted till about 9:30pm with heavy casualty on the side of the insurgents, a member of the civilian joint task force fighting alongside the Nigerian military said. Bukar Bakura told DAILY POST on a telephone around 7:48pm that hundreds of residents have fled their homes. According to Bukar, the ISWAP elements came in a large number with gun trucks and fighting men to take over the ancient town but met bricks wall as the military having earlier information were battle ready when the insurgents came. “Many of them were neutralised as many fled with injuries. They were not lucky this time and they will never be able to take Dikwa town. The soldiers here are always battle ready and we as members of the CJTF are always patrolling and supporting the military. Insha Allah, we will continue to defend our people from these bad elements.” Bukar said. Dikwa is 86 kilometers from Maiduguri, the Borno State capital and had a series of attacks from Boko Haram militants who have been trying to take over the town. A soldier who preferred not to be mentioned, told DAILY POST that he is tired of the military work. ” For close to three years, we have been stationed here in Dikwa town. We battle these terrorists almost on a daily basis,” he lamented. According to him, they have engaged the insurgents and repelled them, adding that, it is very difficult to assess the situation now as both sides record casualty but no death on the side of the military. He said, ” They came from two directions. Some of them came through the new Marte road and another group came through the Ngala road. They came with more weapons and men, but we repelled them. I cannot tell you about death yet.” Also a staff member of one of the NGO, who said he is currently in Dikwa, confirmed that the battle went on for over three hours before the military finally pushed the insurgents back. “The soldiers and police have restricted residents from living in their homes. We were all indoors as we speak. We hope that tomorrow they will let us out.” He said. Recall that the Boko Haram leader in a ten-minute audio had promised more attacks as the country appoints new security chiefs. The attack on Dikwa is coming less than 10 hours after the new service chiefs took control of the security affairs of the security architecture.