The Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), says it has confirmed its earlier suspicion that the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB was being sponsored by fifth columnists with the intent to destroy the South East region. The professional group says its confirmation follows statements on Sunday by IPOB, opposing Igbo presidency in 2023. The group also accused Nnamdi Kanu of working with enemies of the Southeast region to thwart Igbo Presidency. CSEPNND was reacting to a statement by IPOB on why it won’t support Igbo Presidency in 2023. IPOB, in a statement by its spokesman, Emma Powerful, had alleged that “all the people being prepared for the position are stooges that will be used against the interest of Ndigbo, Biafrans and the Biafra agitating groups.” Reacting the group said IPOB’s remark has vindicated its earlier position that the group was being sponsored by fifth columnists to destroy the South East region. A statement signed by the group’s National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Mazi Anayo Uchemba, urged Southeast governors, Ohaneze Ndigbo and other stakeholders to immediately engage the people on advocacy ahead of 2023 general elections. Noting that IPOB’s position had really proven its earlier statement that it is being bankrolled by certain politicians from the South to scuttle Igbo’s quest for the presidency in 2023, the group asked people of the region to be vigilant, firm and decisive on what they really want and not succumb to the antics of Nnamdi Kanu and his likes. The group also questioned why IPOB which claimed to be working for the interest of the South East region would be against the desires of the people of South East extraction. ‘‘At this point that almost every Nigerian is clamoring for Igbo presidency, the best thing for IPOB is to embrace the move and work to its realisation if actually it’s out to work for the betterment Igbo nation. “This is why we have always warned people on the character of Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB, that they are on a self- serving mission and not working for an Igbo agenda,” it added. “Nidgbo deserve the presidency this time around and they have all it takes to produce the next president of Nigeria,” the group said.