A 20-year-old lady on Wednesday accused her father of allegedly raping her in Owo, headquarters of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The lady, who identified herself as Fatima Usman in a viral video, alleged that her father, Usman Momoh Sani, a staff of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo in the state, had for a long while been having carnal knowledge of her. In the two minutes, 10 seconds video, which had gone viral in the state, Fatima alleged that whenever she refused to have sex with her father, he would send her out of the house in the midnight. In the viral video she said, “My father has been sleeping with me for a very long time now, and whenever I refused he would send me out of the room. If I say I will voice out, he would be threatening to kill me. He would bring out a knife and show me that if I tell anybody he would kill me.” Asked where was her mother whenever the incestuous act of her father was being committed, Fatima said, ” My mother did not bother to check on me whether I slept in the room or not. Anytime my father sent me out, and I slept outside, my mother would have slept off, she did not know what was happening.” The young girl called on the government to help him get justice. In another viral video relating to the matter, a man who claimed to be an in-law to Fatima’s father confirmed the incident and said the family had intervened in the matter. He said, “When we heard about the matter, we came to their house and Fatima’s father confessed to committing the act, but pleaded that it was the devil that pushed him. So we took the matter to our village in Delta State and the family said he had committed sacrilege. “So he was asked to bring some items as atonement for the incestuous act and he provided those items, which included tubers of yam, goat, and local gin, among others. After that, the elders in the village warned the girl not to return to her father’s house that she should be staying with me.” The man also stated that the matter was reported at a police station and later Momoh was arrested and granted bail. Though, the place where the incident happened was not mentioned in the video, but because it was said that the Fatima’s father worked the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, gave impression that the matter happened in Owo town, the headquarters of the Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State. When contacted the Ondo State Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Tee-Leo Ikoro, said he was yet to be brief about the matter.