Ekiti State Government has ordered public and private schools in the State to re-open for the second term of the 2020/21 session from Monday 18th January 2021. The curfew earlier imposed on the State from 8 pm to 6 am was also relaxed to now commence at 10 pm and end 6 am while the restriction of a maximum of 20 persons in confined spaces was removed to allow a half capacity of the venue for all events indoors and social-distance two-meter spacing for outdoor activities. Activities limited to between one and two hours maximum period are encouraged to minimize infection risk. In a statement made available to newsmen in Ado Ekiti, the State Commissioner for Information and Values Orientation, Hon. Akin Omole stated that permits must be obtained from the State COVID Taskforce for funerals, weddings, birthdays and other large social gatherings at event centers including hotels, pavilions, fields before the events while limitations on the number of religious services have been lifted. Omole, however, stated that government workers on grade Level 12 and below are still excused from work until further notice. He explained that the decision to reopen schools in the State was taken to avoid the negative impacts on child health, education and
development. Omole added that re-opening schools would also enable students to complete their studies and continue to the next level without avoidable additional burdens on family income and the overall economy of the people. He stated that random testing of teachers and students would be carried out without delay and urged school administrators and
teachers to use infrared thermometers to monitor the temperature of everybody in their respective schools, emphasizing that the government would not hesitate to close down any private or public school with problems. Reiterating the commitment of the Fayemi led administration to the general well-being of people in the state, Omole noted that the state government had been proactive in its response to the pandemic and had properly positioned the State to effectively counter the spread of all communicable diseases including COVID-19. He, however, stressed the need for all and sundry to abide strictly by all laid-down protocol by the State Government to protect them from contracting the coronavirus and help curtail the spread of the virus. According to him, it is mandatory for everybody to properly wear a nose mask in Ekiti State adding that it is also very essential to avoid crowds, observe social distance spacing, keep rooms well ventilated, regular handwashing with soap and water or using alcohol-based sanitizers and coughing into a bent elbow or disposable tissue.