Oyo State chapter of Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) has said that Monday’s indefinite strike embarked upon by workers at the Polytechnic Ibadan has exposed the deceit in the government of Engineer Seyi Makinde. SPN made this disclosure via a statement made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday. The party in the statement signed by its Secretary, Comrade Ayodeji Adigun called on leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) in the state to support the striking workers at the institution. DAILY POST recalls that both academic and non-academic staff in the institution had yesterday declared an indefinite strike. Our correspondent gathered that the strike action follows the non-implementation of the new minimum wage. But, SPN in its reaction, maintained that the ongoing strike has no doubt further showed that the claim of the implementation of the new minimum wage by Engr Seyi Makinde-led government for all categories of civil servants in the State is deceptive. The party also expressed its support to the ongoing indefinite strike. “The strike is in connection with the continued failure of the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government in the state to commence the implementation of the new minimum wage of N30, 000 for workers in the institution, more than a year after it was signed into law by the Buhari-led federal government. Another issue involved in the strike is the overreaching and unlawful activities of the consultant imposed on the institution by the state government. “SPN decries this kind of repressive response from the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government that often claims to be a people-friendly government, therefore demands an immediate withdrawal of the men of Operation Burst so as to avert unnecessary complications and escalation of the issue. “Given this background, SPN calls on the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government to stop all its gimmick to divide and weaken workers’ resolve and accedes to all of their demands without further delay. At the same time, SPN urges the striking workers to remain resolute and undaunted as we strongly believe that all of their demands are achievable only if they can remain determined and steadfast. “Beyond this is to note that, the ongoing strike of the polytechnic Ibadan workers have no doubt further showed that the claim of the implementation of the new minimum wage by Engr Seyi Makinde-led government for all categories of civil servants in the State is not only sectional but also deceptive. “This has again underscored the SPN standpoint that most of the so-called achievements of Engr Seyi Makinde-led government are largely for the purpose of grandstanding and propaganda!”