The Catholic Bishop of Abakaliki diocese, Bishop Nnachi Okoro at the weekend waded into the political crisis that ensued between the governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi and the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Senator Pius Anyim. Recall that Umahi, Senator Anyim, Senator Sam Egwu who is the former governor of the state and all the serving senators/members of the House of Representatives currently in the National Assembly have been embroiled in crisis since Umahi’s defection to the All Progressives COngress, APC. The Bishop, in collaboration with the founding fathers of the state, engaged Governor Umahi, Sen. Anyim, Dr. Egwu and other political actors in a closed-door meeting that took place at the Bishop’s house, Pastoral centre Abakaliki, located along old Enugu Road. An inside source, who confided in DAILY POST, said that the Bishop tasked Umahi, Anyim, Egwu to give way for peace and to put away their differences for the sake of peace in the State. The governor had earlier tendered an apology to his political opponents and called for a ceasefire of all attacks on his opponents. “I offer apologies to them. I am not going to sit on the judgment with anybody. This apology and forgiveness should be enough to settle all bad blood. And I have no regret for that. God directed me to do this. And I thank all our leaders who have intervened,” he had said. He equally instructed all government functionaries and supporters not to reply to attacks meted against his administration. He said: “let me publicly say it here, that I have directed that nobody should abuse anybody again, even if I’m abused, it goes with the job. Do not respond back to them but you should always put any distorted information against us straight. “I am the father of the state. And I should be ashamed of myself if the state of Ebonyi is allowed to go into bitterness and into disunity.” Umahi, however, commended the Bishop and the founding fathers of the state for their prompt intervention to resolve the feud. “I thank the Catholic Bishop Nnachi Okoro, I thank CAN people led by the chairman Rev. Dr Abraham Nwali, I thank the founding fathers, I thank the Ohanaeze leadership led by Chief Nnia Nwodo, Uchenna Madu and all the leaders of the South-East,” he added.