The Zamfara State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abudu Yaro has commenced investigation into the Shinkafi town riot in which property such as water processing factory worth 15 million Naira, block industry worth 5 million Naira and three residential apartments worth 50 million Naira were destroyed by the rioters. According to a press statement signed by the police spokesman, SP Mohammed Shehu on 3rd January, 2021, the Commissioner led a team of detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) to Shinkafi town to assess the level of damage done, and also met the Emir of Shinkafi and other critical stakeholders of the area. The Commissioner of Police, while at the Emir’s Palace empathized with the monarch for the wanton damage to his palace by the rioters, and assured that the Police Command has taken serious measures to ensure such act does not occur in any part of the state. “My command promised that the culprits will be arraigned at the end of the ongoing investigation. I warn everyone to desist from taking the law into their hands, but allow the constituted authority to exercise its duty,” he said. In his response, the Emir of Shinkafi, Alhaji Mustapha Makwashe Isah commended the CP for his quick response to the incident and promised his Emirate’s continued support in everything that will promote security and safety of Shinkafi Local Government Area and Zamfara at large. The statement noted that a town hall meeting was later held in Shinkafi and was attended by many prominent personalities of Shinkafi Local Government Area that include the Local Government council Chairman, Alhaji Sani Galadima, Alhaji Sani Abdullahi Wamban Shinkafi, traditional rulers, religious and community leaders, among others. The statement also said that serious security issues were extensively discussed, pointing out that the CP solicited continuous community partnership and enjoined armed none-state actors to embrace the ongoing peace process. The police spokesman said the team visited the various incidents scenes and conducted scene of crime enquiries in furtherance of the ongoing investigation, stating that the CP condoled the victims and assured them of diligent investigation and arraignment of whoever is found wanting before an appropriate court of law.