The Nigerian Army has launched another operation tagged Operation Tura Takaibango in Northeast theatre of operation comprising Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States. Chief of Training and Operations, Nigerian Army Major General Nuhu Angbazo, who launched the operation on behalf of Chief of Army Staff at the 27 Brigade Tactical Headquarters, Buni Gari, Yobe State, was assertive that Operation Tura Takaibango will boost the efforts of troops of Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole to enable the army to deal with the emerging threats of the Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists in Northeast. “The operation is meant to be theatre-wide targeting known insurgents’ enclaves/hideouts for neutralisation and clearance. At the end of the operation, it is envisaged that our citizens will be free to move about, conduct their farming and other businesses in a safe and secured atmosphere, devoid of any insurgents threat and harassment”, Maj Gen Angbazo explained. He note that Operation Tura Takaibango is also set to be another remarkable operation that would make the nation proud of the Nigerian Army’s determination at sustaining its constitutional role of defending the territorial integrity of the nation as well as its commitment to aid the civil authority to bring about lasting peace and security in the North East operational area. Chief of Army Training and Operations maintained that “troops taking part in the operation would be guided by the professional code of conduct, rules of engagement and the respect for human rights. “Thus, the general public is requested to remain vigilant and be security conscious, as suspected terrorists/criminals may be fleeing from military operations in these areas and finding safe haven amidst our communities”. The recent upsurge in insurgents’ raid operations with the attendant abductions of some travellers along Maiduguri-Damaturu road, Maiduguri-Biu road as well as the recent skirmishes experienced along Damaturu – Biu road, Maj Gen Nuhu Angbazo, said necessitated the need for urgent steps to check these unwholesome trends. “The current threat if not neutralised could result in further attacks on more innocent civilian settlements, the migration of terrorists into Yobe and Southern Borno States with possibility of increased attacks on civilian communities. “Therefore, the Nigerian Army has launched Operation Tura Takaibango to effectively checkmate the situation,” he declared.