Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. The Edo State High Court sitting in Benin, on Wednesday, voided the All Progressives Congress (APC) Deputy governorship candidate, Audu Ganiyu’s participation in the September 19, 2020, governorship election. The presiding judge, Justice H.A Courage-Ogbebor, while delivering judgment, said Ganiyu presented false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in his Form EC9. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, have been warned not to grant additional tenure extension for heads of Nigeria’s paramilitary agencies. They are Controller-General, Nigeria Correctional Service (NCoS), Jaafaru Ahmed; Comptroller-General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede; Commandant-General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana. 3. The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has clarified what it described as the unfounded fears of mass disconnection of telephone subscribers. The Director, Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, in a statement said that its attention has been drawn to numerous publications in the media space regarding the matter of mass disconnection as a result of the ongoing linkage of SIM Registration Records with the National Identity Number (NIN). 4. Suspected Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgents attacked Geidam town in Yobe State Wednesday evening. A resident of the town, who confirmed the incident, said the gunmen infiltrated the town in a convoy of gun trucks in the evening, but the town is now calm. 5. The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has attacked the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Mathew Hassan Kukah, for his comments against President Muhammadu Buhari. In a statement on Wednesday, JNI said the Christian leader made a veiled insinuation that Muslims have a pool of violence to draw from. 6. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Wednesday night, recorded 1,664 new infections of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the country. The figure was the highest ever recorded in one day since the virus was first reported in the country. 7. Two people on Wednesday dropped dead in strange circumstances in Rivers State. The incidents occurred at the Refinery Junction in Eleme. 8. The Nigeria Police, Akwa Ibom State command has detained a 74-year-old medical doctor in the state and four other staff members of the Deeper Life High School, Uyo, following their alleged involvement in the case of the molestation and sexual abuse against one Don Davies, a JSS 1 student of the institution. The detained persons who were supposed to be arraigned before a magistrate Court in Uyo, were not arraigned due to absence of the judge 9. A woman shot at the United States Capitol on Wednesday is dead. Riot broke out after President Donald Trump tactically charged his supporters to oppose counting of the electoral votes that will confirm Joe Biden as President-elect. 10. Former President Barack Obama has declared that President Donald Trump incited Wednesday’s attack on the United States Capitol. The former leader said history will remember the incident “incited by a sitting president who has continued to baselessly lie about the outcome of a lawful election, as a moment of great dishonor and shame for our nation”.