The Kaduna State Government has condemned in strong terms the attitude of some locals who protested against troops in Kamaru Chawai, Chawai Chiefdom, Kauru local government area. A statement issued by the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the protest was connected to an eye witness’ submission to the military on the Friday night’s killing of three persons in the village. The statement noted that the eyewitness informed troops that the killers were strangers from outside the community and spoke English, saying that on Saturday evening, some angry locals harassed the witness to change his earlier statement. In the process, according to the statement, some women attempted to burn the accommodation of the witness but the troops were able to stop the attempt and disperse the mob, although a patrol motorcycle and some personal belongings were burnt, including foodstuff. The statement said the local chief, Malam Jume Umaru, 77, who tried to caution the protesters against the violent action, was beaten to a pulp and has been taken into safe custody by the military. It said the youth leader of the village and four others were invited for questioning, adding that as calm was eventually restored, the Sector 7 Commander, Col. David Nwakonobi has moved to the location and reached out to critical stakeholders. It said Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on receiving the report, frowned at the conduct of some locals, recalling two prior similar incidents. He added that the protesters should have gone to the military intelligence with any emerging information, without resorting to violence. The Governor explained that troops and personnel are deployed to protect citizens, with some paying the supreme price and others incurring lifetime injuries. He reminded the citizenry to accord them due appreciation and collaboration against criminals. The Governor commended the troops for being professional in handling the situation which could easily have escalated. He has directed that the violent protesters who burnt properties be fished out for appropriate action and that the latest submission be incorporated into the ongoing investigation of the Friday killing.