A middle-aged woman has allegedly kidnapped the three-month-old daughter of her male friend in Ondo town, the headquarters of Ondo West Local Area. The suspect identified as Bosede Adeniyi who also absconded with an ATM card of the wife of her male friend was said to be learning tailoring at her man friend’s shop, who was also her boss. It was gathered that Bosede had been having an affair with the man, Wasiu Mamukuyomi before she came to learn tailoring at his shop. According to the man’s wife, Stella Mamukuyomi, the suspect had gone with the baby simply identified as Gold to the ATM after which she could not be found. While accusing her husband of culpability in the alleged kidnap of her daughter by Bosede, Stella said “My husband brought Bose three weeks ago in December 2020 to learn tailoring. “He told me that Bose didn’t have interest again at where she was learning hairdressing.” Stella added that upon her arrival at the shop, Bosede related well with the family but unknown to her, she was Wasiu’s girlfriend. “On January 2nd, she asked someone to send N3000 to my bank account for her, which I gave her on the fateful day (January 2, 2021), claiming she has no bank account. “Later when the money entered my account, I gave her my ATM card with the PIN to withdraw the money and she was backing my baby (Gold) and eventually went to a nearby bank ATM. “To my greatest surprise after more than four hours that day she didn’t return and I had to raise an alarm and we started searching for her and my baby across Ondo city here, Bose was nowhere to be found with my baby till now. “She left her phone with me, but unknown to me, she had removed SIM cards inside the phone and left it empty with me, no way she can be tracked down now,” Stella said. The distraught mother further explained that after disappearing with the baby, she put a call through to her husband to inform him about the incident, but he did not pick up the calls. She also disclosed that her husband was almost lynched by an irate mob when he came back from work over his lackadaisical altitude to the missing baby. Following the development, Wasiu was subsequently arrested by police operatives from the Enuowa police station in Ondo, where he was said to have confessed that Bosede was his girlfriend but that he never sent her to kidnap his baby. When contacted, the Spokesperson of the Ondo Police Command, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, said Wasiu had been transferred to the police headquarters in Akure, the state capital, as the Commissioner of Police had ordered an investigation into the development.