The Bauchi State Police Command on Friday said operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) arrested 23 suspects notorious for terrorising some parts of Bauchi, the state capital. This was contained in a press release signed and made available to DAILY POST by the command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ahmed Mohammed Wakil. According to Wakil, the suspects were nabbed during a raid of criminal hideouts and black spots in Bauchi metropolis, adding that they had been perpetrating heinous crimes against the peace-loving people of the state. According to the police spokesman, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), “On 27th January 2021 at about 0300hrs following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), coordinated by the RRS Commander raided criminal hideouts and black spots in Bauchi metropolis which resulted to the arrest of twenty-three (23) suspects notorious for terrorizing Kofar wambai, Abujan Kwata and other vulnerable places within the city. “Prior to their arrest, they have engaged in perpetrating heinous crimes against the peace-loving people of Bauchi State and their acts include an aggravated form of theft that involves the use of lethal weapons to perpetrate violence against victims and deprive them of valuables which include but not limited to mobile phones and cash. “Sometimes, they brutally stab their victims, leaving them in a pool of blood that may lead to further unfortunate situations including possible loss of lives.” DSP Wakil informed that the suspects’ are aged between 15 to 50. Those apprehended, the police spokesman informed, were Ahmed Bala (18); Abdul-shakur Kabiru (17);
Bello Ibrahim (25); Jamilu Iliya (15);
Kabiru Adamu (30); Dalhatu Bala (19); Hamza Bala (30); Fahat Mohammed (24); Hamisu Abubakar (50) and Lawal Jibrin (22) Others are; Abubakar Mohammed (27); Usman Mohammed (18); Mustapha Abdullahi (22); Rufai Auwal (22);
Sani Mohammed (19); Aminu Mu’azu (17); Salihu Ibrahim (20);
Zaharaddeen Abdulsalam (20); Ishan Sani (25); Isiyaka Mustapha (20); Ahmadu Isiyaka (18); Adamu Mamman (16) and
Salisu Muhammad (20). The PPRO informed that five machetes; five sticks; seven knives; one saw; three hair clippers; one 3-angle spanner; one chisle; one plier; one hammer and the sum of N91,340 were recovered from the suspects. In another development, the PPRO informed that four other suspects were arrested in possession of machetes by the police patrol team. “On the 17/01/2021 at about 2030hrs, police patrol team attached to ‘D’ Division while on visibility patrol at Kimba Junction, arrested one tricycle (Keke Napep) and one Haujoe motorcycle, with about four suspects who were in possession of arms (machetes) for which they could not give any tangible reason(s) for possessing it,” Wakil stated. He named Hassan Abdulkadir (21); Aminu Sa’id (20); Abubakar Muhammed (16) and Nuhu Musa (20) as the suspects. The police spokesman then informed that the cases had been transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for discreet investigation, adding that “suspects will be charged to court for prosecution and possible conviction if found guilty.”