A mother and her two children have been burnt to death in an inferno that occurred at Riban Garmu village in Dewu ward of Kirfi Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Four other persons were reported to have sustained varying degrees of injuries in the midnight inferno, which razed their four-bedroom residence in the village. DAILY POST gathered from an eyewitness that the fire incident occurred as a result of an electricity problem, adding that there was a spark in the night when people were sleeping. According to the villager who preferred not to be named, the spark led to the inferno which eventually consumed the three victims, adding that those who sustained injuries were rushed to the Kirfi General Hospital, where they were currently receiving treatment. He added that despite cries and screams from the woman and her children for help, all efforts made by rescuers to open the door of their room failed. Meanwhile, the member representing Kirfi State Constituency in the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Honourable Abdulkadir Umar Dewu, who confirmed the fire incident to journalist in Bauchi, has paid a sympathy visit to the victims on behalf of the state governor, Senator Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed. The lawmaker told the bereaved families that the governor described the unfortunate incident as unfortunate and a pity, particularly that a woman and her two biological children were consumed by fire. He also said that the loss suffered by the families and the entire community was painful, describing it as an irreparable loss. Dewu then extended Governor Mohammed’s condolences to the bereaved families as well as the community and prayed to Allah to forgive the deceased and to grant the families the fortitude to bear the loss. He, however, urged the families to accept the incident as an act of God and pray to Almighty Allah to stop the reoccurrence of such incident not only in the village but also in the state. The lawmaker then made a cash donation of N250,000 to the victims’ families to start with on behalf of the governor.