The Chairman, Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Col David Imuse Rtd, says that governance in Edo state has finally grinded to a halt. He said this is at a time when there is an alarming number of COVID-19 cases, with many dying, and blames the sad development on infighting between the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) and the Governor Godwin Obaseki administration. According to the statement signed by Victor Ofure Osehobo, the Edo APC Assistant Publicity Secretary; “Our party finds it ludicrous that in the face of the deadly second wave of the coronavirus, the PDP and the Governor in Edo are engaged in such a deadly fight.” He said the infighting over positions and booties of victory have already thrown the state into confusion, as the wheel of governance has since stopped in all ramifications. “PDP in Edo State as a sanctuary of self-centered politicians who do not care about the people, as power mongers and tax collectors their only interest is the Edo State Treasury. “It is five months after the election. There is bitter fighting and hostilities in the Edo State Government apparatus. This is as a result of the confusion that has enveloped the PDP and Governor Obaseki regime over the sharing formula for positions in the administration. “The vicious war for positions as ‘booty’ of a mandate which is the subject of a petition at the Election tribunal further exposes the PDP and the cabal in the Obaseki regime as power mongers who are only interested in power grabbing and mortgaging the collective patrimony of Edo. “Edo people are watching the PDP tax collectors, as they are locked in this shameless conduct, with its leaders fighting openly and shamelessly over the spoils of office: this is so soon after facilitating the emptying of the state treasury and now are coordinating the Governor’s resolve to dubious loans from every source to sustain their greed, and milk Edo people dry.” The APC Chairman noted that the alleged infighting is a confirmation that Obaseki, “has no plans for Edo state”. “The harsh reality is that, with the situation at hand, there is no hope in sight for our State under the PDP and the Obaseki regime. “Nevertheless, the APC stands with millions of Edo people in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19 and advises all to observe the NCDC regulations for their individual Good Health and Safety. “We call on all Edo people to keep Physical distance and wear nose masks whenever they are outside, wash your hands as often as possible with soap and running water, and use hand sanitizers and stay at home if you don’t have genuine reasons to go out,” he added.