A High Court in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, has ordered Magistrate Omolola Akindele to stop the prosecution of Pastor Sam Adeyemi of Daystar Christian Centre, Burna Boy, Davido, Falz, activist Deji Adeyanju and others. DAILY POST recalls that one Mr Okeke filed charges in November 2020 against Pastor Sam Adeyemi of Daystar Christian Centre, Burna Boy, Davido, Falz, activist Deji Adeyanju . The lawyer alleged his property were destroyed during the End SARS protest and called for the prosecution of the defendants who promoted the protest. Others listed as defendants were Peter and Paul Okoye, Tuface Idibia, Banky W, Tiwa Savage, Don Jazzy, Ayo Wizkid, and Yemi Alade. Besides the musicians, other defendants are Aisha Yesufu, Kanu Nwankwo, Joe Abah; journalist Kiki Mordi, as well as actors Yul Edochie and Uche Jombo. Social media influencers such as Feyikemi Abudu, Olorunrinu Oduala, Pamilerin Adegoke, Japhet Omojuwa, Ayo Sogunro, and Deji Adeyanju were also joined in the suit, as well as activist, Tope Akinyode. According to a criminal complaint filed by the lawyer, Kenechukwu Okeke, the Magistrate court is to immediately stop proceedings and stay action against 50 persons who supported the #EndSARS protests. Also, Justice Bello Kawu restrained the Nigeria Police Force from arresting or taking any action against the individuals after the court had ordered police investigation. This was after Deji Adeyanju filed an application before the FCT High Court seeking a judicial review of the substantive matter before the magistrate. In ruling, Justice Kawu said, “An order of this honourable court granting leave to the application to issue and serve on the defendant an application for judicial review against the proceedings/direct criminal complaint of Hon. Omolola Tolulope Akindele sitting at Chief Magistrate Court II, Wuse Zone 6 in the suit of Kenechukwu Okeke Vs Deji Adeyanju and 49 others in suit No. CR/49/2020.” End SARS: Pastor Sam Adeyemi, Falz, Davido, Burna Boy, others, dragged to court over protests APC group attacks Pastor Sam Adeyemi for supporting End SARS movement End SARS: Pastor Sam Adeyemi reacts after being dragged to court over protests