Police in Anambra State have arrested four suspected armed robbers and have also recovered arms and ammunition used by the syndicates. The Police Public Relations Officer of Anambra State Police Command, CSP Haruna Mohammed stated this in a press release he made available to journalists on Thursday. The press release read, “Following review of its crime prevention strategies and prompt response to distress calls in the year 2021, the command has recorded cases of interest to members of the public during the week under review as follows: On 18/1/2021, police operatives attached to ‘B’ Division Awka responded to a distress call of robbery incident at Maja Awka and arrested one Chime Raymond Ugwu ‘m’ aged 27 years, native of Amachala village, Enugu Ezike Nsuka in Enugu State. Exhibits recovered from the suspect include a cut-to-size locally made pistol and one cartridge. Suspect was beaten to stupor by the mob and was taken to police hospital for treatment. “Similarly, on 19/1/2021 at about 9:30 pm, police operatives attached to Awada division responded to a distress call of suspected armed robbers and arrested one Ifeanyichukwu Okoye ‘m’ aged 26 years of Owelleaja community. Suspect and his accomplices presently at large allegedly stabbed a middle-aged man and snatched his infinix Hot 5 mobile phone at Owelleaja. “Exhibit recovered from the suspect include one fabricated rifle.” Mohammed continued, “Also on 19/1/2021 at about 10:pm, a police patrol team attached to Isiowulu Division responded to a distress call at Nkpor junction and arrested one Friday Igwe ‘m’ of Obosi. Exhibits recovered from the suspect includes one live ammunition of 7.65 mm, four(4) different shoulder bags, two handsets and one tricycle with REG NO.WER 304 WC used by the syndicates to perpetrate the crime. “Furthermore, on 15/1/2021 at about 5:45 pm, following intelligence report police operatives attached to Ukpor Division arrested one Ogbogor Martins ‘m’ aged 29years of Ketogwa Obodo Cross Rivers State but resides at Amadin village Ukpor. Exhibits recovered from the suspect include one Double barrel pump-action and three empty magazines of AK 47 rifles. “All cases are under investigation after which suspects would be brought to book.” Mohammed quoted the Commissioner of Police, CP John B. Abang reassuring ‘Ndi Anambra’ of their safety and urged them not to relent in providing timely information through the emergency numbers.