Nigerians on social media have reacted to the sack of Service Chiefs by President Muhammadu Buhari. DAILY POST had reported that President Buhari on Tuesday announced the sack of Service Chief’s with immediate effect. His Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said, “PMB appointed Maj Gen LEO Irabor, CDS, Maj Gen I Attahiru, Army, Rear Adm AZ Gambo, Navy, AVM IO Alao, Air Force as new Service Chiefs. Reacting some Nigerians commended the sack while others hoped that there would be peace and stability with the new development. Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered. @OgbeniDipo, ”Finally, Buhari has fired and replaced the Service Chiefs who were appointed in 2015. We are in a mess and insecurity is a major issue. I hope the new Service Chiefs will deliver.” @Morris_Monye, ”If President Buhari thinks the Service Chiefs had “Overwhelming achievements” and thinks giving them a soft landing by “accepting their resignation” is the best, then it speaks of incompetence from the Presidency Saying “I fired them” sends a message that you are in charge. @Bulamacartoons, ”I don’t think we should be congratulating the new Service Chiefs considering the daunting task ahead of them.” @Belshagy, ”The best news I have heard this year is the appointment of the new service chiefs. I am so excited, not because it will abruptly bring the end to the years of insecurity, but at least we would give another set of military men the opportunity to grow and try their best.” @TopeAkinyode, ”It’s a disaster to be governed by political vegetables. The underperforming Service Chiefs had to retire themselves. Buhari couldn’t sack Buratai & co despite the #OrluMassacre & many other atrocities. This government of the herders by the herders & for the herders is a nightmare.” @aygrafix1, ”Buhari has accepted the resignations of all Service Chiefs. We hope the new security chiefs will ensure peace and stability across the nation. @ayemojubar, ”Let’s remember that this same govt replaced Ibrahim Kpotun Idris with Mohammed Abubakar Adamu as the IG of Police, what did we get? I’m not expecting anything “messianic” from the new Service Chiefs, as long as they still report to Buhari.” @vickelokorie, ”With the appointment of new service chiefs, we have entered the second dangerous phase of our security as a nation. Nothing better will come out this.” @Lazimoo1, ”Finally Nigeria president has listened to the pressure to sack the service chiefs because of the worsening security problem. Those service chiefs became a liability to Nigeria, they couldn’t go and they wouldn’t perform_almost cost Mr President his job.” @danielwhyte2, ”President Buhari would have resigned alongside the Service chiefs and also extended that sack letter to the IG of Police. They all have one thing in common. Incompetence!”