Deborah Okezie, mother of Don Davis, who was molested at Deeper Life High School has accused Reno Omokri, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, of threatening her. Recall that the Magistrate court in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State had charged the school principal, Mrs Ndidi Solomon and four others for unlawfully and indecently assaulting Don-Davies Archibong, which is an offence punishable under section 362(1) of the Laws of Akwa Ibom State. They were accused of involvement in the molestation, starvation and sexual abuse of a JSS1 student of the institution, Don Davies. However, Deborah in a video released on Thursday alleged that she received threats from members of Deeper life church and other popular persons. She explained that Reno Omokri called and informed her to apologize on newspapers and Tv or take whatever she sees. Deborah said, ”My Blood Pressure, Bp is very high. Nigeria, the world at large, the threat is too much. Yesterday, before the court sat I told the lawyer I wanted to see the Magistrate, but they said I could not. ”The threat is too much, someone sent me a message saying; how was the burial of your son? You are fighting a church, definitely you will bury your son. This thing is killing, we cannot say because matter is in court, I will keep quiet and die inside. One Mr Reno Omokri called me that I should go and apologize on national newspaper and TV. ”I don’t understand what I am apologizing for or who I am to beg. He said If I do not, anything I see I should take it. To me that is a threat, my BP is high. Please, the matter is in court; they should allow the court to take its decision. ”They cannot tell me to shut up when Deeper Life members are treating me anyhow. Please beg Reno Omokri and Deeper life members to leave me alone. I do not have what he has. I’m living in fear, the threat is much, and I cannot do things freely,” She added. See video below Davis mother recounts her ordeal in the hands of Deeper Life Church Fanatics and Reno Omokri. #JusticeForDonDavis pic.twitter.com/eUj8rEeOQe — Award Winning Wife #GodWin (@bimbo_cash) January 21, 2021 