A chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Dr. Saleh Abduallahi Zazzaga, has accused opposition politicians and religious leaders in the state of sponsoring protests against the administration of Governor Simon Lalong to score cheap points. Zazzaga disclosed this while speaking with journalists in Jos the Plateau State Capital, on the recent strike across the state by some local government workers over the non-implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage which led to the blocking of major roads across the state as well as the state secretariat. He said investigations show that some persons in the state were the ones behind the protests. He said they have also uncovered several plots by the instigators, planning more protests from various angles against Governor Lalong’s administration. He warned persons fueling such plans to desist as he and other APC stalwarts would not hesitate to name them and tell the public what their nefarious intentions are. According to him, “Governor Lalong is reputed across the country as an outstanding governor who never plays with workers entitlements despite the economic challenges and the state’s meagre resources. “Governor Lalong is fondly referred to as ‘Governor Alert’, meaning workers get their credit alert for their salaries/entitlements as and when due. “It is no secret that Governor Simon Lalong is an outstanding governor. It is because of his performance and developmental focus that he was selected the Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, and he has diligently held that position and has been doing creditably well ever since. “But some enemies of the state, as we have uncovered are hellbent in discrediting the administration and the good works of the governor, thereby instigating innocent people to embark on protest over what they have never cared to seek clarification on. “Religious leaders and politicians of opposition parties are behind these unnecessary moves, and we on our part have resolved that should they perpetrate another of their game-plan, we will counter them, name them and also shame them. The Lalong’s administration’s scorecard is there for all to see, and we would henceforth not allow any mischief-maker to portray a different narrative to the public,” he said. He, however, urged politicians as well as religious leaders to be sincere and frank in their daily activities and not get involved in anything that will bring misgivings in the society, as this can lead to “misinformation, misunderstanding and violence”. He called for collaboration and understanding, saying that all hands should be on deck to move the state and the nation forward, saying there was no need for mischief in any sphere of life and that any mischief-maker who plots against someone out of unwarranted hatred will be rewarded accordingly.