The Bauchi State Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), on Thursday, revealed the identities of some of the victims of last Sunday’s fatal accident in which 20 people were burnt beyond recognition at Tirwun in the outskirt of Bauchi. The FRSC Sector Commander, Yusuf Abdullahi, while revealing the identities as contained in the passengers’ manifest of one of the vehicles, further informed that the death toll of the accident had increased to 21. According to him, one of the two survivors of the accident died while receiving treatment at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital (ATBUTH), Bauchi, where the survivors, both female, were taken for treatment. DAILY POST had last Sunday reported the accident involving an 18-seater Toyota bus and a Volkswagen Gulf car, travelling on opposite direction which had a head on collision and burst into flames, leading to 20 passengers burnt beyond recognition. The Toyota bus, belonging to Borno Express Mass Transit, with 18 passengers on board was said to be coming from Jos, while Vokswagen Gulf was coming from Misau heading towards Bauchi. The Gulf car, it was learnt, had four passengers onboard as of the time of the accident. The Bauchi State Police Command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) DSP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, who confirmed the incident in a telephone interview with DAILY POST, said that only two females survived with varying degrees of injuries out of the 22 passengers in the two vehicles. According to the FRSC Sector Commander, the remaining survivor of the accident was still on admission at the ATBUTH though unconscious. Abdullahi stated that according to the passengers’ manifest of the Borno Express bus, with registration number: BO-89-A-28, six of its passengers were males, while seven females. He informed that the destination of five of the passengers was Damaturu, while six were heading to Maiduguri. He listed the passengers as contained on the manifest as: Okoh Moses; Ishaq Hamza; Success Dan Yerima; Babangida Hassan; Palmala Gaji and Kolo Kyari. Others are Fatima Mele Maryam; Christiana Pam; Glory Zaka and Yusuf Nadabo, while the driver’s name is Ado. The sector commander, however, called on relatives of the deceased to come forward to the Bauchi State Sector Command and claim their properties.