A civil society group under the aegis of Plateau Concerned Local Government Staff Forum (PLALOCAF) has appealed to local government workers in Plateau State to suspend their street protests against the state government’s non-implementation of the new minimum wage at the council level. PLALOCAF alleged that the protest meant to draw attention of the state government to the deplorable plight of workers at the LGA level and push for implementation of the new minimum wage had been hijacked adding that the movement had been turned into campaigns for the 2023 elections by desperate politicians The forum made the appeal in a statement signed by representatives from the three senatorial districts of the state: Mr Pam Bot for Northern Zone, Nde Patrick Gomos for Central Zone and Sir Birtrus Nanven for Southern Zone. It called on the government to sustain negotiations with stakeholders and addressed the aggrieved workers. The protest council workers over the non implementation of the new minimum wage at the LGA level in Plateau State has lasted for over one month now. “We observe with regret that protesters have continuously blocked the entrance to the Plateau State Secretariat for over three weeks, thereby preventing civil servants and other legitimate income earners access to the secretariat for their legitimate business,” the statement added. The forum warned that the situation was degenerating into a worrisome state and a threat to peace and stability, accusing some self-seeking and desperate politicians in the state of sponsoring the hijack of the protest. PLALOCAF admitted LGA workers have absolute rights to protest over their grievances, but said that this must be done without violence, which, according to the group, some failed politicians are now bringing into it. Based on this claim, the group called on the protesting working to immediately call off the action and allow the umbrella body NULGE, to enter to negotiations with the state government and other stakeholders. PLALOCAF said:”Our message has been passed to the government at all levels and from the engagement held between government and our leadership, we, the concerned members are satisfied with the feedback from our leadership and we hereby withdraw from protest immediately.” It added:” We appeal to our all colleagues to stand down the protest and allow our leadership engage with the government and other stakeholders for an amicable solution.”