The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has asked the All Progressives Congress, APC, the President, Muhammadu Buhari and members of the National Assembly elected on the platform of the ruling party to learn from what is going on in the United States of America. The main opposition party made the call in a statement on Friday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, insisting that Nigeria can only be repositioned when all Nigerians, including workers in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, the judiciary, the legislature, security forces, and faith-based organisations, join hands. “It is instructive to state that this is the only way to reposition our nation on the path of good governance, political stability, national cohesion, and economic prosperity,” the party said. The PDP noted that if not for the strong institutions put in place by patriotic leaders of the US, the country would have been thrown into terrible turmoil. The party called on the Buhari led government to check all acts that weaken Nigeria’s institutions and encourage the manipulation of security, judiciary, legislative and electoral bodies. “Mr President should take steps to ensure reforms that would strengthen our system, including ending all acts of nepotism in appointments into such sensitive institutions.” It noted that the US example equally underpins the demand for “public officers, particularly the APC leadership in the National Assembly, to begin to pay greater loyalty to our country and her interest over the parochial interest of their party or the executive arm.” “The patriotism displayed by American Senate Leader, Mitch McConnell, in rejecting the attempt to undermine their nation’s electoral system is a direct call on APC leaders in the National Assembly against the unpatriotic practice of putting narrow partisan interests above the national interest. “Moreover, the APC must stop being a community of people with common selfish interests and desperation for personal enrichment, who are not ready to stand up for the truth in the face of acts of injustice, deprivation and callousness against the Nigerians people and our constitutional order. DAILY POST reported the death of four persons and the arrest of 52 after supporters of Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday in protesting and demanding that the Congress stop the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory. The Metropolitan Police Department, Chief Robert J. Contee, told reporters that 47 of the 52 arrests to date were related to violations of Mayor Muriel Bowser’s 6.00 p.m. curfew. President Trump till date has refused to acknowledge Joe Biden as the winner of the November 3 presidential election but has insisted that the election was marred by fraud. The incumbent President has also lost most of the numerous court cases he filed challenging the outcome of the election.