About 15 people have been killed, 11 shops and five vehicles burned by unknown gunmen who invaded Kaya village in Fatika district in Giwa local government area of Kaduna State on Saturday night. Reports say the attack happened about 8pm on Saturday and may be a reprisal of Friday’s invasion of the home of a warlord leading to the killing of three of his relatives by residents of the village. A source, lbrahim Ahmed Fatika who was in Kaya on Sunday morning explained that eight of the residents killed were indigenes of Kaya village while the remaining seven including a trailer driver were visitors who brought chicken manure. Ahmed explained that 10 military personnel have been stationed in the village, stressing that the said vehicles burnt include three Golf cars, a 406 and a bus while furniture shops were equally razed down. Another source in the village, Abdu Saidu also confirmed that the attack was linked to the burning of the house of an alleged warlord called Filani and the killing of three of his relatives. The source added that Filani’s gang was suspected to have abducted five persons including a soon-to-be bride from neighbouring Kaura village, saying that the people of Kaura had sought help from residents of Kaya.
He noted that on their way to render assistance, one of the villagers from Kaya went missing, adding that when they couldn’t rescue the abducted victims, they suspected Filani’s gang was behind it and so they went to his house and set it ablaze. They were also alleged to have macheted his brother who was later taken to the hospital but referred to a general hospital. Saidu explained that when the villagers found the corpse of their missing companion, they then ambushed Filani’s brother and two other relatives while on their way to the hospital, killed them and later burnt their remains. The Kaduna State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, who confirmed the incident said the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area, the local government chairman, state legislator and District head were currently in the village to commiserate with the people. The PPRO described the incident as very unfortunate, noting that the residents took the laws into their hands by attacking and killing people they suspected to be bandits without informing the Police. ASP Jalige explained that the Commissioner of Police has directed more deployment of personnel to the area, assuring that normalcy has been restored in the area.