Former Tottenham Hotspur manager, Harry Redknapp has expressed disappointment over the sack of Frank Lampard as Chelsea manager. Redknapp, who managed Lampard at the start of his playing career at West Ham, feels the Chelsea legend needed more time to complete a long-term project at Stamford Bridge. Recall that Chelsea owner, Roman Abramovich, on Monday sacked Lampard as the club’s manager following the Blues’ FA Cup 3-1 win over Luton Town on Sunday. “It’s very disappointing to hear the news this morning,” Redknapp told talkSPORT. “On the back of a good result, beating Luton in the FA Cup, I thought they would give him a bit of time. “I thought [Ole Gunnar] Solskjaer was sure to go, no way he was going to survive, but Manchester United gave him a bit of time, and suddenly they had a little run and turned it around. “Everybody goes through bad spells; Jurgen Klopp is going through one now at Liverpool, Mikel Arteta is going through one at Arsenal as well. “People need time. Losing four or five games does not suddenly make you a bad manager! Surely you have got to have more faith in people rather than giving them that knee-jerk reaction. “When you look at the players, people say he’s spent all this money, did he bring the players in? Did he bring the Germans in? Management is so different now. Managers are not always responsible for signing players. “The recruitment for me in the summer, all the money they spent, I don’t think they spent it well. I have not been impressed with the players they have brought in apart from Thiago Silva who they brought in on a free transfer, the rest of them there are big question marks over. “The two German players have been massive disappointments, massive. I am not even sure Timo Werner is cut out for Premier League football, and the physical side is too much for him. “I doubt very much whether Frank had a big say over who came in. “If they were worried about his lack of experience, maybe they should have brought someone in with a bit more experience around him. You need people around you when things are not going well, and he didn’t have that. “The bottom line is you need time. You are going to have your ups and downs. “Sir Alex Ferguson wouldn’t have survived at Man Utd [nowadays]; he survived by the skin of his teeth, the board looked like they were going to sack him after 18 months or two years at Old Trafford when he hadn’t won anything, but he then went on for many, many years and was arguably the greatest manager we have ever had. “You need time, and unfortunately at Chelsea, it’s a club where they don’t seem to give you time.”