A chieftain of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, Barr. Olusegun Bamgbose, has described the dismissal of the country’s security heads as the best decision taken by President Muhammadu Buhari in his five years in office. The new service chiefs, as DAILY POST had earlier reported, are: Major-General Leo Irabor as Chief of Defence Staff; Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao as Chief of Air Staff; Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo as Chief of Naval Staff; and General Ibrahim Attahiru as Chief of Army Staff. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to President Buhari, Tuesday, said that his principal felt it was the best time to remove the security heads and appoint new ones. According to Adesina, “the President knew the time to do it and I believe the time has come and that is why it has been done.” He added that the service chiefs did not resign as a result of a number of security failures under their tenure. And speaking with DAILY POST in reaction to development, Bamgbose, who had in many occasions pleaded with Buhari to change his service chiefs, said, “The much awaited and most expected sack of Service chiefs yesterday by President Buhari, is a cheering news and the best decision Buhari has made in five years as President.” He said the President’s decision is no doubt a very welcome development and a very big relief, adding that Buhari deserves commendation for summoning up courage to show the service chiefs exit door. “I will also commend the stakeholders who made this possible. Worthy of mention is the National Assembly, Femi Falana, Femi Fani Kayode and notable Northerners who all put pressure on the Presidency to do away with the exhausted service chiefs. “I’m very optimistic that the change will equally bring about a change in the fight against insurgency. Boko Haram, bandits, gunmen, kidnappers should be prepared to face the wrath of the military. “It won’t be business as usual. President Buhari has done well in removing them. His decision to sack them can be said to be the best he has made as President of Nigeria in five years of his administration. “The new service chiefs should swing into action immediately. There is no room for too much talk or celebration, they should strike and put an end to this ugly scenario of insecurity in Nigeria.”