Two workers in the employment of Oyo State have been arrested for allegedly selling COVID-19 palliatives in Ibadan. The workers, DAILY POST gathered, were arrested for selling 40 bags of sugar which are part of COVID-19 palliatives. The two workers have been arraigned in court. Policemen from Oyo State police command arraigned the two staff at an Iwo Road Chief Magistrates’ Court on Tuesday. The defendants are Mr Adebiyi Azeez, a driver, and Mr Sunday Akinleye, an Assistant Protocol Officer in charge of Palliative at the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters at the State Secretariat in Ibadan. DAILY POST gathered that the duo were charged alongside a trader, Kafayat Babalola for allegedly receiving and buying the stolen items. The defendants are facing three -counts charge of conspiracy, stealing and receiving of stolen goods. The offence was said to have been committed on December 30, 2020, at the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, DAILY POST gathered. Police prosecutor, Mr. Sunday Ogunremi told the court that Adebiyi and Akinleye allegedly conspired together to commit the offence of stealing. “Adebiyi, driver and Akinleye, assistant protocol officer in charge of Palliative allegedly stole 40 bags of Dangote Sugar Covid -19 Palliatives at the Ministry valued N60, 000 property of Oyo State Government “The duo of Adebiyi and Akinleye allegedly used the official vehicle of the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy title to convey the goods to the buyer. “The third defendant, Mrs Kafayat Babalola, a trader at Agbeni Market, Ibadan, received 40 bags of sugar Covid -19 Palliatives knowing that it is not for sale and property of Oyo State Government,” he said. Ogunremi said that the offence contravened section 516, 390 (9) and 427 of the Criminal Code of Oyo State 2000. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges against them. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Taiwo Oladiran thereafter granted the defendants bail in the sum of N20,000 each, with two sureties each in like sum.