The Spiritual Head and Chairman of the Holy Order of Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church (CSMC) Worldwide, Most Reverend Samuel Adefila Abidoye, on Sunday, called on Nigerians to be cautious of the second wave of the deadly COVID -19 pandemic. The Most Reverend Abidoye made the call in Bauchi during a condolence/goodwill message to the congregation of the CSMC, Yandoka road, Bauchi. Represented by the General Organizer (GO) Boys Brigade CSMC Worldwide, Most Senior Apostle Joseph Baoku, Abidoye particularly charged churches across Nigeria to strengthen the enforcement of strict adherence to all the Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks, hand washing with soap and running water, using hand sanitizer, ensuring physical and social distancing, among others.  The cleric called on Nigerians not to only ask God to bring an end to the challenges currently confronting the country, but also observe the COVID-19 protocols to curtail the virus. According to the spiritual head, his delegation was in Bauchi to condole the church over the death of some of its members. “We are here to condole the church over the passing on of two of our members as well as deliver Baba Aladura, Most Reverend Samuel Adefila Abidoye’s goodwill message to the congregation in this trying time of our dear country.” “I am here with the District Organiser (DO), Jos District and other members of our entourage to pay condolence visit to CSMC No 1 Yandoka road Bauchi over the demise of Matron, Boys Brigade 5th Bauchi Company CSMC, Special Mother in Israel Beatrice A. Fayomi and the passing away of officer Olaiya Oladeru’s wife. May their souls continue to rest peacefully in the bosom of our Lord. “Baba Aladura is asking us and all Nigerians not to relent or get tired of praying, especially at this trying time so that God will heal the land of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic,” he stated.  The clergy then admonished Nigerians, irrespective of their ethno-religious and political affiliations to live righteous lives, declaring that without that Nigeria would not make appreciable progress. He further urged Nigerians to be peaceful, tolerate, forgive and love one another. ‘‘I urge all Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of peace, tolerance, forgiveness, love and harmonious relationship among adherents of the various faiths in the country.’’ COVID-19: Observe protocols or risk closure - Ganduje warns market community COVID-19: Lai Mohammed makes clarifications on 'second lockdown' COVID-19 second wave: Nigerian govt confirms date schools will reopen nationwide