Two lawmakers in Kano State reportedly refused to participate in the concluded Local Government Election in the state in protests against Governor Umar Abdullahi Ganduje. Senator Barau Jibril represents Kano North Senatorial District, while Shaaban Sharada, is a member House of Representatives Reports say both Senator Jibrin and Sha’aban Ibrahim Sharada of Kano municipal constituency and Abdulkadir Jobe, representing Dawakin Tofa/Tofa, refused to participate at the Kano Local government elections to spite Ganduje, who is alleged to be against their reelection bid. The Kano State Independent Electoral Commission, KANSIEC had on Saturday, 16th Jan organized the Local Government election across the 44 local councils in the state. However, Senator Barau and other National Assembly members were conspicuously absent, all through the election day in what appeared to be a protest against the selections of those contesting their local government areas. Reports indicate that the senator was in Abuja during the election, a situation that cast doubts in the minds of people on whether he is in good terms with the state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje or not. Senator Barau, who is from the same Local Government as Ganduje, recently began to distance himself from the affairs of the state, having allegedly realised that Governor Ganduje may not support his Gubernatorial bids comes 2023. A close associate of the senator, who spoke on conditions of anonymity said he was in Abuja while the election was taking place in Kano. Asked why Barau also failed to show up during the election, which received much attention from governor Ganduje, the associate said he was not aware of any reasons why the lawmaker would boycott the polls. “I can’t tell you the reason why senator Barau Jibrin Maliya failed to come to Kano. He was supposed to be here to even monitor the election in his local government, Dawakin Tofa. ” I didn’t speak with him yesterday, but I thought he would be here with the governor, especially as he is from the same local government with Ganduje,” He said. Meanwhile, Sharada and Jobe’s absence might not be unconnected with their issues with Governor Ganduje. Recently, a video clip went viral on social media, purportedly showing Sharada lambasting the Ganduje administration, accusing the government of selling public properties. Ganduje on his part had allegedly said recently that Jobe was not a good representative as he spent 12 years at the House of Representatives without any motion and constituency projects but sleeping at the chamber.