The Police Command in Cross River State has paraded a suspected manufacturer of explosives device, one Felix Bassey Okon ‘M’ aged 32. The suspect, according to DAILY POST findings, was arrested at Uyanga Community in Akamkpa Local Government Area of Cross River State on January 24, 2021 Our finding further revealed that on the arrest of Okon, Christopher Edet Udoh ‘m’ aged 45 years, Daniel Udo Eyo ‘m’ aged 39 years (manufacturers of the locally made guns) and Abel Daniel Eyo ‘m’ (son of the guns manufacturer) were also arrested Parading the suspects and recovered arms, the Commissioner of Police, in Cross River CP Sikiru Kayode Akande, on Friday, said that one improvised explosive device (IED), ten bulls of gun, two long locally made guns and six fabricated double revolver guns were recovered. Also recovered were ten expended cartridges, 20 fabricated long pipes for gun construction, 3 small bottles containing tools, 2 filing machines, 2 tables vice, 2 saw blades, 6 iron files, five pieces of scrap irons, five barrel pipes. CP Akande further said that one suspected cultist/armed robbery one Joseph Okio ‘m’ aged 16 years was also arrested on the 28th January 2021 with locally made double barrel shotgun. “A Naval personnel was arrested and brought to the Anti-Cultism/kidnapping Squad. The aforementioned boy alleged he collected the gun from his master and has been using it for robbery at different locations. This led to the arrest of one Ettah Ude Okorie ‘m’ aged 36 years,” CP Akande stated. He said that search warrant was conducted in the house of Ettah Ude resident at No 76 Egerton Street, Calabar where Face Mask, Charms, Aye confraternity beret/Peak cap was recovered On child stealing, the Commissioner of Police said that on January 28th at about 11.30hrs, following credible information, Operatives of the Anti-Cultism/Kidnapping Squad arrested four suspects at Peace Park, Eta Agbor Road. “Investigation revealed that one Nfun Okon Udo ‘F’ aged 23 years bargained selling her child and after receiving the sum of seventy thousand naira from the suspects she refused to hand over the child to the buyer contrary to their initial agreement “The investigating team recovered the sum of sixty nine thousand naira in their possession. The suspects are Anny Festus Udosen ‘m’ 39 years, Saviour Effion Udo ‘m’, Josephine Arikekparie’f’ and Blessing Joseph Nnana ‘f’” he listed. The Commissioner, however, assured members of the public and unsuspecting persons to continue their good works in tackling crimes through information dissemination to the Police devoid of any unpleasant consequences “It is also important to note that modern policing methodology requires a complementary role through citizens participation at all levels irrespective of our different beliefs” and called on the traditional institutions, community leaders, religious youth leaders to see security as a collective business in addressing all forms of awful crimes across the state. “The Command hereby warn all the enemies of peace and persons or group of persons unlawfully possessing firearms to willfully return the same to the Police at all levels as contrary will attract arrest and prosecution if caught,” the CP Akande stated.