The All Progressives Congress (APC) Elders’ Forum in Ekiti State has called on all communities in the state to raise Census Committees ahead of the forthcoming National Population Census. Rising from its end of the year meeting held in Igbara Odo, Ekiti Southwest Local Government Area, the Ekiti APC elders urged the people of the state to participate actively in the ongoing enumeration area demarcation exercise being conducted by the National Population Commission (NPC). A communique issued at the end of the meeting made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday and signed by the Chairman, Asiwaju George Akosile and the Secretary, Chief Abiodun Ajayi, charged residents to take the exercise seriously because of its future political, social and economic importance. It said: “The National Population Commission enumeration demarcation exercise which is currently going on in Ekiti State should be taken with all the seriousness it deserves. “Since this enumeration demarcation survey would be followed by the actual National Population Census, the Forum believes that the high population number derivable from the National Census will increase the numbers of Constituencies in the State as to enable us have more members in the House of Assembly and the House of Representatives in Abuja. “As to achieve this objective, the Forum is suggesting a Census Committee for each community in Ekiti State to monitor and provide logistics support for the exercise.” The Forum also expressed worry over the increase in the rate of COVID-19 infections in the Land of Honour and the rising cases of the pandemic in other states of the federation and on the global stage. The Ekiti APC Elders’ Forum urged the people of the state to be more security conscious and report any strange movement in their vicinity to the Amotekun Corps and other security agencies in the state for prompt action. The body urged APC members in the state to take the membership registration and validation of old members’ exercise of the party in the state seriously to position the party for victory in future elections. The communiqué reads in part: “Members of the Forum observed the recent increase in the COVID-19 infections internationally, nationally and in Ekiti State in particular. “While appreciating the efforts of the Dr. Kayode Fayemi administration in containing the spread of the pandemic so far, we want to encourage all Ekiti Kete to observe all COVID-19 protocols especially in churches, mosques, social gatherings and all marketplaces throughout the state to reduce the effect of the pandemic. “The Forum extends its sincere gratitude to Governor Kayode Fayemi for the inauguration of the Amotekun Corps in the state and also commends the efforts of the Corps in containing security problems especially kidnapping, rape and other criminal activities. “The Forum wishes to encourage all members of the Amotekun Corps to be dedicated, loyal and honest to their duties to secure Ekiti State from criminals. The Forum urges members of the public to report strange movements and faces in their vicinity to security agencies.”