The Zamfara State Police Commissioner, Mr. Abutu Yaro has maintained that his policy thrust will be deepening the implementation of Zamfara peace accord through engagement and interaction with all the stakeholders in the state. According to him, “my priority will be community participation in the act of achieving peace in the state. This is because the modern day policing, in this era of technology where the world has become a global village, community partnership and intelligence led policing is more than necessary” he added. Abutu disclosed this during a press conference at the police command in Gusau, the state capital, stressing that a lot of progress and achievements have been recorded by the command through dialogue and non dialogue approach. “In my determination to consolidate and advance the successes recorded through the ongoing peace initiative in the state, I have constituted a Police Peace and Implementation Committee headed by the Chief Imam of Zamfara State Police Command SP Alhassan Suleiman, assisted by the O/C SIB CSP Rufa’i Ahmad Nuhu and four other Fulani speaking Police officers” “The mandate of the committee is to interact and dialogue with all warring parties especially Fulani bandits operating in different camps and locations in the state” The state police boss explained that the committee is also to facilitate the surrendering of arms and ammunition by repentant bandits. Providing religious interface such as Tafsir and Islamic re- orientation to the Fulani nationalities in the forests and pastoralists camps. “On 24th December, 2020, our peace building initiative led to the unconditional surrendering of three AK-47 rifles and forty seven rounds of live ammunition to the government committee on disarmament that comprises, the Police, Military, DSS and the Ministry for Security and Home Affairs,Zamfara State” CP Abutu explained that on the 9th January, 2021, Police tactical unit attached to Operation Puff Adder in Kanoma District of Maru Local Government Area acted on intelligence report and recovered an AK-47 rifle with four hundred and forty four (444) rounds of live ammunition abandoned under a tree by a suspected bandit and escaped into the forest. The state police boss said following the ongoing peace engagement in Shinkafi Local Government Area , on 15th January, 2021, DPO Shinkafi in collaboration with leaders of the repentant bandits facilitated the unconditional release of one AK-47 rifle with two magazines and eighteen rounds of live ammunition. “Sequel to the abduction of three people at Gidan Barga village and other three people at Dangajeru village in Keta District of Tsafe Local Government Area, on 13th December, 2020 and 1st January, 2021 respectively. DPO Tsafe in collaboration with Tsafe peace Initiative Committee and some leaders of the repentant bandits facilitated the unconditional release of all the abducted victims hale and hearty. They were properly debriefed and reunited with their families”. ” On 23rd December, 2020, Police anti crime patrol team attached to “Operation Puff Adder” acted on intelligence report and raided a criminal hideouts at various areas and locations of Shinkafi town. The fifteen suspects arrested were fingered to have been terrorising the people of Shinkafi and it’s environs” ” Exhibits recovered includes, dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp. All the suspects have been charged to court for prosecution in the court of competent jurisdiction. He noted that on 4th January 2021, a combined team of PMF/CTU stationed at Sabon Gida/Tazame along Gusau – Zaria Road Kotorkoshi, Bungudu Local Govermment Area intercepted a Toyota sequo Jeep with reg. No. AKD 858 CG, driven by one Hassan Ibrahim. “On interrogation, the driver confessed that the vihicle was stolen from Port Harcourt in Rivers State and to be taken to sokoto. Suspect and exhibit have been transferred to SCID Gusau for discreet Investigation” “Similarly, on the same date, some Police personnel intercepted a tanker DAF CE reg. No.ANC 61 XA driven by one Babangida Hussaini’, along Gusau – Tsafe Road. The driver has confessed that the diesel was being diverted from Kaduna – Gusau, and he is currently undergoing investigation with a view to fishing out his partners in crime before taken to court for prosecution” “ON 5th January, 2021, armed bandits went to Saminaka Community, an outskirt of Gusau town and rustled about two hundred (200) cows belonging to the community. PMF personnel stationed along Gusau – Tsafe road were alerted, and they swung into action and perused the bandits who later abandoned the cows and escaped into the forest. All the cows recovered were returned to the said community” He said that the command recovered a stolen Pontiac Vibe vehicle at Gidan Dawa area of Gusau, the state capital. CP Abutu noted that on the 13th January, 202, the DPO Gusau Central led a Policemen to Gidan Dawa area Gusau and recovered the above Vehicle following an intelligence report received from kano about a stolen Pontiac Vibe motor vehicle with reg. No. GWL 236 ST whose owner was suspected to have been kidnapped and his vehicle taken away. He stated that the command foiled armed robbery/ death of an armed robber along Gusau- Kotorkoshi- Tsafe road in Bungudu Local Government Area of the state. “On 14th January, 2021, combine team of PMF/CTU personnel stationed at sabon Gida/Tazame KotorKoshi along Gusau – Zaria road led by ASP Murtala Ibrahim were alerted about an ongoing robbery along the highway, saying that the Policemen swung into action and proceeded to the scene and engaged the hoodlums to a gun duel” According to him, in the process, one of the armed robbers was killed while many others escaped with possible bullet wounds. Exhibits recovered include; a locally fabricated gun and a Cutlass. “On 14th January, 2021, Mobile Police Personnel attached to “Operation Puff Adder” at yartasha village of Dansadau district of Maru Local Government Area of the state acted on intelligence report and intercepted two suspected bandits who have been terrorizing the inhabitants of the area” “Exhibits recovered from them them includes; two rounds of AK-47 live ammunition, two (2) cutlasses, one (1) Boxer Motorcycle unregistered, one MP3 Radio, two bags containing some clothes and shoes, two Tecno Handsets and the sum of six thousand five hundred and eighty naira (N6,580). Suspects are currently undergoing investigation and will be charged to court for prosecution. ” On 12th January, 2021 members of outlawed group (Yansakai) of kauyen kane village in Tsafe Local Goverent Area attacked and killed a Fulani man by name malan Babuga Danmallam of kunchin Kalgo. On receipt of the report, Police in collaboration with District head of the village arrested the suspects in connection with the case” ” They are currently in Police custody undergoing investigation, they will be charged to court for prosecution ” “On 30th December, 2020, kidnapped victims were rescued by the Police in Talata Mafara Local Government Area following their abduction by the bandits. Victims were debriefed and re-united with their families.