Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, a chieftain of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has lauded the massive road infrastructural improvement in Abia State. Isiguzoro who spoke with DAILY POST during the commissioning of road project executed by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu-led administration in Aba, on Friday, said the reconstructed Eziukwu, Ojike, and Milverton roads would ease the transportation of produce from the commercial city to neighbouring states. The Ohanaeze chieftain said the present administration in Abia State has remained undeterred in its efforts on the establishment of Enyimba Economic City, industrialization, promotion of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises. Isiguzoro, who doubles as the Secretary-General of Engr. Mike Ibe-led National leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, reassured that the apex body would continue to cooperate with Abia and other South-East states in bringing ideas that would enhance the welfare of the citizenry. The former Ohanaeze Youth leader called on the citizenry to sustain their unflinching support to the state government as it has laid a good foundation for the socio-economic and political growth of Abia State. According to Isiguzoro, “First and foremost, I hail the Abia Governor for his laudable and people’s oriented project which has gone a long way in addressing infrastructures deficits of the state. “Since I arrived the state, I have taken the time to tour the nook and crannies of the State, you will agree with me that the Abia government led by Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has put solid structures for the state’s economy to thrive. The Osisioma flyover is at eighty percent completion and see the durability of his massive road projects, the governor has changed the narrative in the infrastructural deficit of Abia. “I call on the good people of Abia State to continue to sustain their support to Ikpeazu-led administration to enable him to achieve more. And also, I advise residents of Aba, to complement the efforts of this government by refraining from dumping refuse in the drainage, because, it wouldn’t be healthy in government’s determination to fix the commercial city, Aba”.       