An Islamic cleric, Professor Sabit Ariyo Olagoke has declared that there cannot be any meaningful development at the local government level under the present constitutional arrangement in the country. Olagoke, who is also the founder and Spiritual Head of Shafaudeen-in-Islam organization made this disclosure on Thursday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to see to the amendment of the present constitution in order to ensure that local government stands on its own without depending on the State. The former Dean, School of Engineering, Federal Polytechnic Ilaro, Ogun State, insisted that the present constitution made local government area to be an extension and apendage of the state governments. Olagoke while speaking at the press conference to herald Shafaudeen Ishrat 2021, added that most state governors had made local government areas under them an appendage of the state. He noted that for this reason, local government areas cannot embark on meaningful projects which would uplift the people at the grassroots. Olagoke said that for local government to work independently without depending on the state and to embark on meaningful projects, the present constitution in the country should be amended. He said, “Most of the Governors have made local government an appendage of the state. “Under the present constitution and condition, we may not see any meaningful development at the local government level. “I told one of the Governors that came, that governors had made local government an appendage of the state, he was not happy, he did not want to believe, but that is the situation. I have said my own. “There cannot be meaningful development if we did not reform the constitution. We need to amend the constitution. “Prayer without working cannot take us anywhere. I want our people to adhere with the COVID-19 protocols and instructions. This will help us to tackle the coronavirus. “Look at Ebola, Covid-19, there are many people that have died, it is because we are not really prepared for it.”