President Muhammadu Buhari has come under criticisms for violating the COVID-19 law. DAILY POST first reported sighting the Nigerian leader without his mask in Daura, Katsina State, on Saturday. Buhari is in his hometown to revalidate his membership of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Governors, government officials, several party loyalists and supporters accompanied him. The President had a mask on but removed it at some point. On Sunday, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) expressed dismay about Buhari’s flouting of the regulation which provides 6-months jail term for defaulters. The PDP called it a huge national embarrassment and gross failure of leadership that the President “who ought to lead by example”. did not. Its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement said it was scandalous that while Nigerians were striving to obey the COVID-19 regulation, they saw reports of open violation of the law by the country’s leader. “The media is awash with reports and pictures of Mr. President in public, discussing with his party leaders at the event without putting on a nose mask or maintaining social distancing as stipulated by the new law. “Such disregard to law and rules, which have characterized the Buhari Presidency and the APC, is largely responsible for the failure of leadership.” PDP noted that the development showed that the Buhari presidency and the APC were more interested in partisan politics than the wellbeing of the nation. “We ask, with this violation, do the Buhari administration and its officials still have the rectitude to enforce sanctions on any other defaulter in the absence of necessary regrets by the President and his party, the APC.” PDP said the onus lies on Buhari and the APC to clean up the mess by tendering an unreserved apology to Nigerians and take steps to observe necessary regrets over this violation. The opposition advised Nigerians not to emulate such examples, but continue to exert themselves in observing all COVID-19 protocols placed to check the spread of the pandemic. Nigerians on social media have also lambasted the President. Nearly 100 percent of reactions to the DAILY POST story condemned the President’s breach of his own rules. @prince_ironsi: “If I calculate the face mask I use every month, it is more than minimum wage. And he’s not wearing. Make rules and don’t obey them.” @lekanladepo: “We are in a country whereby the law and justice only favours the riches and poor suffering on the other side.” @mr_sulaimon: “Presidency made the law and not Buhari. He’s not aware of any law.” @adepejurahmon: “Na only rich Nigeria law dey favour, what a lawless country.” @bashoruabiodun: “If the president did not use nose mask, that means no Covid-19. We are just being deceived.”