An All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Garus Gololo, has advised President Muhammad Buhari, whom he described as a “gentleman”, to continue with the overhauling of the country’s security architecture. Gololo said National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, should be removed. He also called for the sack of Secretary of the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha and all members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Gololo made the call in reaction to the nation’s insecurity and the latest Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index on Nigeria. Nigeria was ranked 149 out of the 180 countries worldwide. At a briefing, Gololo hailed Buhari for retiring the former military heads. “The story will still be the same with Gen. Monguno still the National Security Adviser. He should be replaced so we have a clean slate in the system. He is from Borno State with Gen. Yusuf Buratai, the North East, where Boko Haram insurgency is prevalent, yet, he could not achieve anything. “The office of NSA is purely to gather intelligence and also proffer possible ways of getting the nation out of security quagmire. Monguno has shown that he lacks such intelligent capacity overtime. Keeping him there would undermine the genuine efforts of the new Service Chiefs”, he warned. To get the country out of corruption and regain international confidence, Gololo said Mustapha and ministers should be fired. “President Buhari is a nice gentleman with much integrity. But unfortunately, he has surrounded himself with a clog of sycophants who only succeed in bringing a bad image to the nation and bringing the President to international disrepute.” Gololo complained that ministers were yet to commission projects, but “speak English every Wednesday and take huge allocations to their ministries with nothing to show for it.” “As for Boss Mustapha, I have severally lent my voice to the voices of other Nigerians that he should be probed. His PTF on COVID-19 is a pack of corruption. The Senate had invited the team to explain how billions of naira allocated to that Task Force within a short time was expended, but the SGF could not give an account.” Gololo wondered why the SGF was pushing for allocation of more billions of naira. Noting that the new executive order on COVID-19 was a good thing, he demanded a probe of funds spent on the pandemic “to let the whole world know we are not corrupt as they said”. Gololo stressed that the two major challenges facing the country were corruption and insecurity and that the President must act urgently to take Nigeria out of the shackles. The APC chieftain vowed to always speak the truth and guide those in authority in the right direction. Gololo recalled he and others laboured to form the APC and install the current administration. Gololo added that he won’t fold his hands and allow those who “lost” their polling units during election derail the ideology of the party and push the name of the country and the President to international disrepute.