Some civil servants in Oyo State on Thursday declared an indefinite strike. Our correspondent learnt that the workers declared the indefinite strike over allegation of unpaid deductions by the Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration. DAILY POST reports that activities at some ministries and agencies at Oyo State Secretariat were paralysed by the protesting workers on Thursday. The ministries and agencies that were affected included; Women’s Affairs and Social Inclusion, Local Government Service Commission, Oyo State Signage and Advertisement Agency (OYSAA), and Water Corporation of Oyo State. DAILY POST reports that workers of the Water Corporation under the aegis of Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE), embarked on the strike following the failure of the state government to pay the six months deductions owed them Oyo State government. AUPCTRE Secretary, Ibrahim Mohamed who addressed journalists on Thursday said that the union had exploited all options to resolve the matter to no avail. Mohamed, who doubled as NLC Secretary in the state said, “It is an indefinite strike. We have exploited all available options but the government is not forthcoming. The government failed to respond to our calls. They owe us arrears of up to seven months. “It is the Water Building, and it belongs to us. The Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Local Government Service Commission, Oyo State Signage and Advertisement Agency (OYSAA) are all tenants.” Before the indefinite strike was declared, DAILY POST gathered that the union had on January 20, 2021, gave the state government a 72-hour ultimatum to pay the outstanding deductions. Other demands of the union included, safety of life and property of the Water Corporation, an increment in monthly subvention, supply of chemicals to the Corporation, recruitment of workers and appointment of substantive General Manager for the organisation. “I bring to Your Excellency fraternal greetings from the state leadership of the above named union and to inform Your Excellency that after a series of meetings with the management of Water Corporation and Government representatives without finding lasting solutions to our demands, the union is left with no other option than to issue this letter on the above subject matter. “Aside outstanding deductions, the Union also demanded the payment of check-up bonus, leave bonus, car loan deductions, and housing loan deduction. Others are increment in monthly subvention, availability of chemicals, recruitment of more workers for the Corporation and the appointment of a substantive General Manager. “Following the expiration of the 72 hours ultimatum, the union commenced the strike, locking up the Water Building, which houses several other state agencies, while also blocking the feeder roads leading to the building.”