A group of hunters in Kogi State have arrested six kidnappers operating within Kabba junction in Adavi Local Govt Area, following a tipoff. The hunters equally rescued 19 kidnapped victims from their abductors. Speaking to DAILY POST on Saturday, the Kogi State Chairman, Hunters Group of Nigeria, (HGN), Mr Inusa Bature, said the arrested suspects were linked to the recent Kidnapping in the area. “We got the information that some travellers were kidnapped, we swiftly mobilised to the identified location where they had contact and engaged the criminals in a firefight. “During the encounter, we overwhelmed the bandits and shot one of them, while others fled. We later arrested six out of twelve kidnappers as we are optimistic that the remaining 6 would be arrested” Bature assured One of the victims, Mr Magaji Francis said they were travelling to Adamawa from Lagos on reaching Kabba junction their vehicle was stopped by kidnappers and four of them were kidnapped. “They selected four of us while they freed the driver and some passengers, they seized our phones after they communicated with our families and demanded ₦50 million ransom,” he said He explained further that their captors who he said were Fulanis beat them with Cutlass, starved them, tied them and threatened to kill them if their relatives failed to pay the ransom. “We thank the Hunters Group of Nigeria for saving our lives, it’s them that God used to rescue us,” he said. Another victim who spent three days in the hands of the kidnappers narrated his ordeal; ”My name is Akangi Saidu, we were travelling to Lagos from Adamawa, we were kidnapped at about 3 am along Lokoja- Okene road, they collected our money and phones. “Our abductors tied us and beat the males among us, injured about 5 of them who are currently on admission at Alheri hospital here in kabba junction,” he said One of the kidnappers told DAILY POST that he was invited by one Fulani who he called Oga and one yellow. “Am from Zaria in Kaduna state, while two others are from Katsina state, we were invited by Oga and Yellow to take part in a Kidnapping operation along Lokoja – Okene highway. “We are twelve in number that kidnapped our victims and collected ₦1.5 million before we were arrested by the hunters,” he said. Chairman of Adavi Local Council Mr. Joseph Omasa Salami, who visited some of the victims at a private hospital in Kabba junction, described the situation as pathetic. He alleged that it is the resident Fulanis who invite the miscreants to the area and warned that anyone arrested would face the full wrath of the law. Salami commended the hunters and other security agencies for their efforts toward curbing crime in the area. Items recovered from suspects include locally made guns, army uniforms and Eight mobile phones, among others.