A cleric, Pastor Elijah Abiara has warned other clerics against prophesying about winners of elections, election results and likely outcome of elections. Abiara of Comforter’s Prophetic Institute, North America, gave the advice in a statement made available to DAILY POST. The cleric noted that the need for clerics to steer clear of predicting winners of elections is necessary due to what he described as ‘disruptive prophetic declarations’ that greeted the November 2020 presidential election in the United States of America and developments that followed its outcome. Abiara in the statement made available to DAILY POST on Saturday cited the high rate of failures and divisions created by utterances of religious leaders and groups before, during and after the hotly contested United States of America presidential election. The cleric then advised prophets and pastors to stop dabbling into election prophecies. He added that most of the predictions failed because they were self serving. “Religious leaders, groups and individuals, across the globe, as well as in Nigeria, made failed prophecies about the elections and the candidates – immediate past President, Donald Trump of the Republican Party and President Joe Biden of the Democratic Party. “Many of the prophecies of the recent US election’s outcome failed because of self-interest, not because the Lord is not with these men of God. No matter how powerful and how accurate your gift of prophecy is, if you have self-interest, it will create self-conflict, resulting in false prophecy which may in turn, affect your credibility. “Many men of God, especially the evangelicals had queued behind Trump, with some labelling the eventual winner of the election, Biden, as agent of the Antichrist due to his party’s open support for controversial issues like homosexuality and abortions. “The truth of the matter is that Joe Biden is more of the Lord than many politicians in Washington. “In his acceptance speech, Joe Biden quoted many Bible verses, more than Donald Trump ever quoted in his entire four years in the Oval office. Joe Biden is a faithful and practicing Catholic. “It’s time to move on and pray for the new president. China is on the rise and on a speed to overtake the US, but it won’t happen because the US is the only mouthpiece for God’s chosen nation- Isreal.”