A former aide to ex-President, Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, has demanded the whereabouts of First Lady, Aisha Buhari. Omokri also questioned Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, for saying Nigeria’s security situation under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was better than 2015. Mohammed had boasted that the present government under Buhari is winning the war against insecurity in the country. The Minister said this while speaking at a press conference in Abuja on Monday. Mohammed said: “I can say without hesitation that, though Nigeria is facing security challenges, the situation is far better than what we met in 2015. “I can tell you today that the armed forces, the police and other security and intelligence agencies are ramping up their efforts to enhance the security of lives and property across the country, and the results are beginning to show.” Reacting, Omokri in a tweet via his Twitter handle on Monday, asked the Minister where is Aisha, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari. Omokri tweeted: “Lai Mohammed released a statement today, in which he said as follows: “‘Nigeria’s security situation is far better than what we met in 2015.’ “I want to remind Lai Mohammed that in 2015, Dame Patience @GEJonathan lived in Aso Rock. Lai, where is @AishaMBuhari? Meanwhile, Mrs. Buhari had last December reacted to reports that she fled Nigeria to Dubai due to security issues in the Presidential Villa. The First Lady said that she travelled out of the country for a medical checkup. Aisha disclosed this through one of her aides, Kabiru Dodo, in Jalingo, Taraba State. Dodo said: “The First Lady travelled for her medical trip, she didn’t flee the country because of insecurity. “She left her children, her husband and family in Nigeria. “What people are saying is baseless and worth nothing to be considered. “I want to tell the whole world that I do speak to her on a daily basis and she is ready to return to the country as soon as she is done with the medical treatment abroad.”