Tragedy struck again in Kogi State, as no fewer than 14 persons have lost their lives in a fatal motor accident between an 18-seater bus and a truck loaded with cement. The incident happened at about 13:00 hours on Wednesday between Obajana/Lokoja road. It was gathered that the bus, which was loaded from Zuba near Abuja, was heading towards Lagos. Unfortunately, it was learnt that the bus had a tyre explosion and the driver lost control in the middle of the road before the truck loaded with cement from Obajana to Abuja rammed into it. Fourteen out of the seventeen passengers in the bus lost their lives, while three percentages in the bus sustained degrees of injuries and are currently receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Center Lokoja. However, the motor boy in the truck was also reported to have been seriously injured, and is also receiving treatment at the same hospital. The Kogi State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, (FRSC), Solomon Agure confirmed the incident during an interview with DAILY POST. He said the command had a call at about 13:10 hours and immediately swung into action to save the lives of the accident victims. ” It is another sad day here in the state as 14 people lost their lives in a fatal accident along Obajana Lokoja road. Those that sustained injuries in the accident are now at the Federal Medical Center Lokoja receiving treatment. “We are appealing to motorists to always check and cross check their vehicles before plying on the road. They should avoid over speeding, as this may cost their lives,” he said. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Government has expressed shock and sympathised with the families of the victims. A statement from the state commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo, explained that preliminary reports showed that the accident involved a bus and a truck conveying cement from Obajana. “The Governor, Government and people of Kogi State express deep sympathy over the demise of 14 passengers of a bus involved in a ghastly accident at Old Akpata, along Lokoja-Obajana Road today. “It is indeed, a sad occurrence and a shame that we lost such promising souls in such a pathetic circumstance, ” He added. “As a Government, we will strengthen our road safety measures to ensure that avoidable loss of lives are averted. “We also call on the FRSC to intensify its surveillance along the roads and ensure that road users obey traffic laws as well as ensure that only road worthy vehicles ply our roads. Every life is precious. “The Kogi State Government expresses deep shock over this irreparable loss of lives as we pray that God grants families of the deceased the fortitude to bear their losses,” he said.