Nigerian Army has appointed some senior officers to new positions. Brig. Gen. Sagir Musa, Director Army Public Relations, announced the designations in a statement on Saturday. Musa said the postings approved by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, were routine exercise intended to reinvigorate the system for greater performance. Major General FO Agugo from Headquarters, Nigerian Army Signals Corps, Apapa, Lagos moves to Defence Headquarters Department of Communications as Chief of Defence Communications; Major General M Mohammed leaves Nigerian Army Resource Center in Abuja heads to Pronto Tech Nigeria Limited as the Managing Director; Maj Gen AR Owolabi moves from Defence Headquarters Abuja (Department of Communications) to Headquarters Nigerian Army Signals Corps as Commander. Major General A Bande retains his position as General Officer Commanding 8 Division Sokoto; Major General E Akerejola from Army Headquarters Department of Logistics to Nigerian Army School of Supply and Transport, Benin as Commandant; Major General UM Mohammed remains the COAS’s Special Adviser for Nigerian Army University Biu and Vice Chairman, Nigerian Army Property Limited, Abuja. Major General CV Eze moves from COAS’s office (Nigerian Army Special Projects) to Army Headquarters, Department of Army Logistics as Director Engineering Services; Major General OF Azinta from Defence Space Agency, Abuja to Defence Headquarters as Director Psychological Warfare; Major General AM Dauda exits National Defence College, Abuja to Army Headquarters Department of Policy and Plans as Director Policy. Major General AL Dusu moves from Army Headquarters, Department of Policy and Plans to Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Kachia, as Commandant; Major General H Ahmed exits Headquarters, Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police to become Provost Marshal (Army); Major General TA Gagariga exits Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Kachia to Defence Space Agency, Abuja, as Deputy Chief of Defence Space Agency. Major General JO Iwara moves from Army Headquarters Department of Standard and Evaluation to Department of Army Logistics as Director of Logistics Planning; Major General PI Eze retains his position at Headquarters, Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE Maiduguri as Theatre Logistics Component Commander; Major General OO Oluyede remains in Sector 2 Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Damaturu as Commander; Major General BR Sinjen also remains at Army Headquarters Department of Training and Operations, Abuja as Director Operations. Major General R Abubakar will continue in Defence Headquarters as Defence Liaison Officer Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja; Major General OO Soyele moves from Defence Hedquarters, Abuja to Nigerian Army Resource Center, Abuja as Senior Research Fellow; Major General AK Ibrahim remains at Headquarters 7 Division/Sector 1 Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Maiduguri as GOC/Commander Sector 1 Operation LAFIYA DOLE; Major General SI Igbinomwanhia will stay on at Sector 3 Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Monguno as Commander. Major General IM Jallo moves from Headquarters 63 Brigade, Asaba to Headquarters 6 Division, Port Harcourt as GOC; Brigadier General AIM Lapai moves from 302 Artillery Regiment (General Support), Onitsha to Headquarters, Nigerian Army Corps of Artillery, Kontogora as Director Field Defence; Brigadier General Kawugana leaves Warrant Officers’ Academy, Jaji to Headquarters 9 Brigade, Ikeja, Lagos as Commander; Brigadier General MO Jimoh exits Defence Headquarters to Defence Space Agency, Abuja as Deputy Director, Launch Vehicle Systems. Brigadier General MA Bolarinwa moves from Nigerian Army School of Supply and Transport Benin to Defence Headquarters (Annex), Lagos and as Deputy Director Supply; Brigadier General SM Uba remains at 401 Special Forces’ Brigade as Commander; Brigadier General WM Dangana moves from Army War College Nigeria, Abuja to 3 Division Garrison, Jos as Commander; Brigadier General AGL Haruna to remain at 7 Division Garrison, Maiduguri as Commander. Brigadier General AM Garba moves from Headquarters Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Maiduguri to Headquarters 23 Brigade, Yola as Commander; Brigade General AG Laka exits Army War College Nigeria, Abuja to Nigerian Army Operations Centre, Abuja as Coordinator; Brigadier General IA Ajose from Training and Doctrine Command, Minna to 4 Special Forces Command, Doma as Chief of Staff; Brigadier General DK Zirkushu leaves Headquarters 1 Brigade, Gusau to Headquarters 28 Task Force Brigade, Chibok as Commander. Brigadier General M Ibrahim moves from Operation SAFE CORRIDOR, Gombe to 14 Brigade Ohafia as Commander; Brigadier General A Idris moves from Army Headquarters Department of Administration Army to Headquarters 63 Brigade, Asaba as Commander; Brigadier General RT Utsaha exits 34 Brigade Garrison, Owerri to 32 Brigade, Akure as Commander; Brigadier General MA Sadiq leaves Headquarters Operation DELTA SAFE, Yenagoa to Headquarters 4 Brigade, Benin as Commander. Brigadier General IH Daniel moves from 304 Artillery Regiment Maiduguri to 34 Brigade Garrison Owerri and appointed Commander; Brigadier General EO Ojabo from Defence Headquarters, Abuja to 81 Division Garrison, Lagos and appointed Commander; Brigadier General SS Tilawan to remain in Headquarters 5 Brigade as Commander. Colonel FD Babatunde leaves Headquarters 81 Division, Lagos to Headquarters Operation SAFE HAVEN Jos as Sector Commander; Colonel OJ Majebi moves from Operation SAFE HAVEN, Jos to 31 Brigade Garrison, Minna as Commander; Colonel JC Mbanefo exits Headquarters Nigerian Army Corps of Artillery to 301 Artillery Regiment (General Support) as Commander; Colonel MA Maaji moves from Depot Nigerian Army Zaria to 4 Operation DELTA SAFE as Commander. The statement noted that all the postings take effect from January 18, 2021. Buratai wished all the officers well in their respective appointments. He enjoined them to take their new responsibilities seriously and discharge all duties professionally.