Binance, the world’s leading cryptocurrency exchange, via its Binance Masterclass education series, plans to equip up to 1000 African blockchain developers with the right tools and skills to build their first DApps on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC) network within the first quarter of 2021. From January 31, 2021, beginning with a two-hour Binance Masterclass – Developers’ Edition on ‘Careers in Blockchain Technology’, Binance CEO, Changpeng Zhao (CZ) will introduce the program. The Binance Smart Chain (BSC) and Binance Africa teams will host an 8-week program under the theme Rebuilding Financial Systems on Blockchain. The BSC and Binance Africa teams aim to show the multitude of career options in the crypto and blockchain space – beyond crypto trading. The program will be coordinated by crypto industry thought leaders from ChainIDE, Xend, Bundle, as well as the BSC team. Location: Zoom (first 1000 attendees) & YouTube
Date and Time: 31st January 2021, 4pm WAT, 5pm SAST, 6pm EAT
Register now at: https://www.binance.com/en/event/masterclass_jan The Binance Masterclass series is an ongoing monthly FREE crypto education webinar hosted by the Binance Africa team. In 2020, Binance Africa successfully educated over 70,000 Africans about crypto fundamentals, practical tutorials on how to set up an account – and buy & sell crypto, technical analysis and crypto trading. As of December 2020, the Binance Africa team has organized more than 400+ free events in 2020, getting attendees across 40+ countries (mostly African) online and offline.  Binance continues to expand its crypto education efforts on the continent in 2021, starting with the Binance Masterclass – Developers‘ Edition: ‘Careers in Blockchain Technology’. In addition to Binance CEO’s keynote speech, this edition of Binance Masterclass will include two key sessions: Careers in Blockchain Technology (led by Chuta Chimezie), and Becoming a Blockchain Developer (led by BSC team lead). The masterclass on January 31 aims to increase product awareness for blockchain development within Africa using BSC. Attendees will: Acquire high income development skills; Learn blockchain development with Binance for FREE; Receive a certificate of participation issued on BSC (for those that complete the 8-weeks course) Binance Masterclass will also be giving away $1000 worth of crypto during the event. The 8-week program on Rebuilding Financial systems on Blockchain begins on February 1st. The schedule below:  Week 1: Blockchain: Technology, Innovation, and Thinking A brief conception of blockchain; History with blockchain (whitepaper\1.0); Possible future of blockchain (Speaker: Xiao Wu – CEO, WhiteMatrix). Week 2: Financial Service and Cryptocurrency On Blockchain Overview of cryptocurrencies; Overview of traditional financial services; Impact of crypto on financial services. (Speaker: Samy K – Ecosystem Development, BSC) Week 3: Dapp development with ChainIDE Make an introduction about Chainide, about the feature and function; Bring engineers go through with the whole process of compile\deploy\interaction. (Speaker: Tim Zhang – CTO, WhiteMatrix) Week 4: How solidity works in a smart contract? Make an introduction of smart contracts and talk about the internal connection with block chain; Introduce the smart contract programming language – solidity (ie. Solidity Grammar/ function/.sol file structure/memory storage). (Speaker: Prophet – Community Supervisor, WhiteMatrix) Week 5: What is DeFi? Make one yourself Make a definition of DeFi. How is it different from traditional finance? Are there any advantages?; Take a few look at DeFi projects, like Uniswap/AAVE/YFI, etc.; What will we build? A system includes staking and reward. (Speaker: Prophet – Community Supervisor, WhiteMatrix) Week 6: Let’s follow DeFi to go further How to use another contract in the smart contract? The implementation of staking and rewarding; What else can we do? (Lending/ Aggregator). (Speaker: Prophet – Community Supervisor, WhiteMatrix) Week 7: Interact with a smart contract by yourself, from start to finish How to use the program to interact with the contract? The relationship between react and Javascript (The related links will list pre-class information. About the JS grammer and react rules); Display an example about how to build a simple website that can react with deployed smart contracts. (Speaker: Prophet – Community Supervisor, WhiteMatrix) Week 8: DeFi Case Study/Inside out Panel: How to build a successful DeFi project? (Speaker: Ugochukwu Aronu – CEO, Xend; Yele Bademosi – CEO, Bundle) Week 9 (Optional): Frontier blockchain technology outlook (Speaker: Ugochukwu Aronu – CEO, Xend; Yele Bademosi – CEO, Bundle) Demo Show Pick 5 best projects from Masterclass students for a demo. Every team has 15 minutes to present their idea.