Oyo State Police Command on Thursday said some hoodlums attacked some Policemen who arrested two suspects. Police said the hoodlums after attacking the policemen in Ibadan also freed the two suspects who had been arrested. Our correspondent gathered that some hoodlums have been terrorising innocent citizens around Idi Arere, Popoyemoja, Born photo, Molete, Beere, Shogoye, Akobi and other areas within the Ibadan metropolis. DAILY POST recalls that a 60-year old plantain seller was killed during a clash between two rival cult groups in one of the areas a few days ago. The state Police Command on Thursday announced that police officers from Mapo Division succeeded in arresting two suspects in connection with the series of public disturbance in most of the areas. Unfortunately, police said the suspects were set free by some hoodlums who attacked the policemen arresting the suspects. Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko in a statement made available to DAILY POST through the Public Relations Officer of the Command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi narrated that one suspected hoodlum, identified as Packaging, led some thugs numbering about thirty (30) to attack and mob the Police team while forcefully taking the two miscreants away. Onadeko used the medium to appeal to parents and guardians in the two areas to warn their wards to desist from acts capable of causing the breakdown of law and order. She added that massive deployment of Police personnel and that of Sister Security Agencies have been put in place to forestall further crises. “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command wishes to inform the general public on the incident that occurred earlier today 28th January, 2021 at about 1145hrs at Odo-Osun Area of Mapo where Police personnel from Mapo Divisional Police Headquarters were deployed to effect the arrest of two notorious miscreants who have been deeply involved in the crisis rocking Shogoye/Akobi areas of Mapo lately. “It can be recalled that armed thugs from Shogoye/Akobi Areas have been unleashing mayhem, causing grievous hurts and death of innocent citizens in the two areas. On the 25th of January, 2021 at about 0600hrs, an elderly woman in a white Celestial church cap known as Modupe Daramola ‘f’ aged 60 years of a Celestial church in Akobi area was hit with pellets from a locally made gun fired by one of the hoodlums during the clashes and gave up the ghost, while some other ones sustained varying degrees of injuries. “Sequel to the arrest of the two notorious miscreants who were handcuffed, one A.K.A Packaging led some thugs numbering about thirty (30) to attack and mobbed the Police team while forcefully took the two miscreants from them. “In a bid for the Police personnel to escape from being lynched, a shot was fired to the air while the Police personnel managed to escape. “At about 1220hrs, one Akeem ‘m’ in the company of some angry miscreants invaded the Police Station to report that his younger brother was shot and the miscreants attempted to attack Mapo Police Station, while some cars at the junction leading to the street of the Station were damaged. “The mob was thereafter repelled by Police personnel who were strategically positioned to prevent the Station from being attacked. Not too long, at about 1350hrs, the corpse of one Badmus Rasheed ‘m’ 20 years was brought to the Police Station amidst the angry mob that was earlier repealed from attacking the Station. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to appeal to parents/guardians in the two areas to warn their wards to desist from acts capable of causing the breakdown of law and order as the massive deployment of Police personnel and that of Sisters Security Agencies have been emplaced to forestall further crises.”