The Chairman of the south-east governors’ forum and governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi on Tuesday vowed to arrest and prosecute members of the All Progressive Congress, APC, and the People Democratic Party, PDP, who instigates security breach in the state. Umahi made this known while briefing journalists at his country home at Uburu community, shortly after a combined security meeting. “Whether PDP, APC, APGA anybody that is causing the problem must be arrested and dealt with.” He maintained that the Fulani herdsmen and Ebonyi people have been living in peace for a long time and so, any act intended to cause disaffection between both parties was aimed at discrediting him and the people of Ebonyi State. “There is a growing concern of security in the state and it has a lot of political undertones. The idea is to discredit the Governor of the State. If not properly handled will lead to an attack on our brothers and sisters. We have been leaving peacefully with the Fulani herdsmen in the State. “We have an agreement with the Fulani herdsmen for peaceful coexistence. The issue of IPOB and Fulani herdsmen are very sensitive. It will ignite a crisis for the whole of this country if not properly handled. “We have over 11 million Igbo in the North and also 3 million in the West. This issue of igniting the crisis against the Fulani should be condemned by all. It will consume everybody. The issue of security is very serious. “There is an orchestrated plan to portray Ebonyi and the Governor in a negative light. I don’t know why the searchlight is turned on me. What is going on is beyond politics and capable of causing a national crisis. “We had a meeting with founding fathers of the state, Dr. Sam Egwu, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim. There should be a cease-fire. Government officials should not attack dignitaries in the state. I have accepted the decision of the founding fathers. “Let us face our party and governance. South-East Governors had had a meeting on security. There is going to be a common uniform and vehicles peculiar with the South East. For adequate protection of lives and properties. “I congratulate the new Leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. They should bring back aggrieved persons who were affected in the course of the election.” Ends