A popular Prophet, Sam Olu Alo of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Grace of Mercy Prayer Mountain, Adamimogo Outreach, Lagos, has strongly advised Nigerians to obey every directive for precaution against the COVID-19 pandemic so as to avert a likely economic depression that would bring great sorrow and suffering. Alo, who dismissed the insinuations from some quarters that government might been deceiving the nation about the spread of a second wave of the pandemic, as amounting to pitiable ignorance, warned the people to desist from such deception and urgently and diligently take precautionary steps as given by government against the pandemic. The cleric gave the advice while addressing with newsmen during his Church’s 2021 edition of yearly programme, tagged: Grace To Recover. Alo, the planter Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) Adamimogo Outreach, warned Nigerians not to allow the second wave of COVID-19 to devastate the nation’s economy further. He stressed that reports from the western world about the resurgence of the pandemic were frightening. His words: “I will strongly advise that our people should take the issue of personal hygiene seriously. It is not yet time for us to think that we have won the battle against COVID-19. Let us continue to observe all regulations on social distancing. Let everyone use his or her facemasks and wash our hands regularly. “I have observed that a lot of people have abandoned safety precautions. This is not good enough, people should not see observing safety protocols as punishment from government but for the good of our collective well being. “Our economy is already in recession so going into another lockdown might be unbearable for the citizens. While commenting on the poor security situation in the country, Alo said; “The security situation in Nigeria should be a major concern to all discerning minds .And this is not good for the image of our country. No investors would like to come in when we record incidences of banditry, kidnappings and killings on daily basis. “Let the military rejig their tactics, if you are adopting a strategy and you are not getting the desired result, then you need to change it. The cleric also urged Nigerians, both the rulers and the ruled to embrace Agape love for one another, be closer to God and be prayerful, adding that the nation’s woes would end if the foregoing are taken care of. He equally called for urgent constitutional reforms that would ensure that leaders and the led do the right thing always, saying: ” We must adhere to the new reforms. Our laws must be obeyed and we must back our activities even performance by Government with law for effective implementation.”