As part of efforts to have a formidable team ahead of the 2022 gubernatorial election in Ekiti State, the People’s Democratic Party PDP has commenced mobilisation of members and strategising in Ekiti. The party tasked its executives at all levels to begin aggressive membership mobilisation to strengthen the party and make it strong to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The decision was taken at a meeting convened by the PDP State Secretary, Funmilayo Ogun with 16 Local Governments and 155 ward secretaries in the state. The meeting was attended by the Chairman of the party in the state, Hon. Bisi Kolawole and other members of the State Working Committee. The State Chairman, Hon. Kolawole, charged party executives to embark on an aggressive membership drive, noting that
it was the first time a secretary would organise a programme of such nature to boost the chances of the party. “I urge the party’s secretaries to forget the style of the past and start mobilising for the party ahead of the 2022 governorship election in the state. “The ward secretaries should be responsible, know what they are doing and to always listen to the leadership of the party. Winning Ekiti back in 2022 is dear to our heart in PDP and you have critical roles to play for us to actualise this”. The convener of the parley and former Commissioner for Works under ex-governor Ayodele Fayose, Mrs Ogun, said she called the meeting to sensitise ward and local government secretaries on how best to perform their duties as opposition party’s scribes. Ogun advised secretaries not to work at cross purposes with their Chairmen for a stable and peaceful chance to win elections. “Secretaries cannot do anything without the permission of chairmen. The party’s scribes at local governments and wards should be ready to carry out other duties that may be assigned to them in a manner that will make our party stronger in the eye of the public. “You must ensure that the implementation of the decisions and directives of the party are strictly adhered to. Ensure that all units of the party carry out their duties promptly. This is the best way to operate as an opposition party”. She said it was the duty of the party’s scribes to render a written report of the activities of the party for better coordination and cohesion within the system.