Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu has charged the newly inaugurated COVID-19 Action Recovery And Economic Stimulus, N-CARES Steering Committee to be proactive and commence work immediately to ensure that the State gets the full benefits of the N-CARES State steering committee in line with the disbursement conditions. Ikpeazu gave the charge while inaugurating the 14-man COVID-19 Action Recovery And Economics Stimulus Committee, a programme assisted by the World Bank in conjunction with the Federal Government, at the Government House, Umuahia. Governor Ikpeazu represented by his Deputy, Rt. Hon. Ude Oko Chukwu said they are to “oversee the functions and activities of those things that will enable the State and World Bank achieve the objectives of the exercise”, which include among others, to provide policies and guidelines towards the attainment of the goals of the World Bank in cushioning the effects of the pandemic.  He described the Steering Committee as a very peculiar one, having been set up to handle some of the issues arising from the shock and distortions from the Covid-19 pandemic, with its effect on the living standards of the people, especially the most vulnerable group in the society and economy of the states and nation. He expressed optimism that they will live up to Government’s expectations of appointing them. Responding on behalf of the other members of the Committee, the Chairman and Commissioner for Finance, Dr. Aham Uko thanked the Governor for finding them worthy to serve the state as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in destabilizing the living conditions of various households and Government’s economy cannot be overemphasized, and promised to work hard to ensure that the confidence repose in them will be actualized.  DAILY POST reports that other members of the committee include commissioner for Agriculture, his Small and Medium Enterprises Development and cooperative and Rural Development counterparts, and their permanent Secretaries, the Chairman and General Manager CSDP, Programme Manager, FADAMA, while the Executive Secretary, Abia State Planning Commission will serve as the Secretary of the Committee. 