Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, on Wednesday, criticized the presidency’s reaction to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu order to Fulani herdsmen. He noted that President Muhammadu Buhari had failed to protect the people and should allow governors take charge. Akeredolu had told herdsmen occupying Ondo forests to vacate. In a statement on Wednesday, Adams said as the chief security officer of the state, the governor had the duty to protect the lives and property. The Yoruba leader called Garba Shehu’s reaction, a threat to the sanctity of Ondo and a deliberate attempt to work against the state. He maintained that the reserved forest was under the jurisdiction of the state government. “Garba Shehu/Presidency apparently doesn’t know the meaning of a reserved forest. It’s not accessible except to authorized personnel/loggers. Apart from the place being a place for valued cash trees, it’s also meant as a haven of safety for protected animals against poachers.” Adams noted that the herdsmen living in the forest are not only unauthorized, they would likely cut down trees to make fires and must also kill animals for food”. “A reserved forest is not a place of residence for anyone, not even Ondo indigenes or farmers. It is most unfortunate that such a statement is coming directly from the presidency, which according to the constitution, has the prerogative to protect the people.” He accused the Buhari administration of planning to foil the plan of the Ondo government to get rid of the bad elements masquerading as herders and pastoralists. Adams cited security instances or killings, kidnappings and robberies. “The governor’s convoy was attacked on two occasions. Two prominent Obas have been kidnapped. A first class monarch was killed by bandits masquerading as Fulani herdsmen. A university lecturer was abducted. The daughter of Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti was murdered. Chief Olu Falae’s farm was invaded on four occasions, leading to the death of one of our members, a security man.” The high chief insisted that the governor’s decision is in the right direction and in the interest of the state. Adams appealed to the Yoruba to support Southwest governors in their fight against insurgency across the region.