Former Premier League and La Liga striker, Michael Owen, has predicted some of the English Premier League Match-day 19 fixtures. Liverpool will host Manchester United on Sunday evening at Anfield, while Chelsea will tackle Fulham on Saturday evening. Mikel Arteta’s Arsenal will face Newcastle United at the Emirates Stadium. Sheffield United will host Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday afternoon. Providing his predictions, Owen told BetVictor: “Well, this is certainly a Super Sunday! Manchester United travel to Anfield one place above their old rivals in the top spot. It’s been some turnaround for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men and a win here would certainly cement their place in the title race. “Liverpool’s mighty home record stands at 67 games unbeaten in the Premier League and Jurgen Klopp will be trying to treat this one as just another game in their quest for back to back Premier League titles. “However, everyone involved at the club, especially the fans, will be hoping upon hope that when the time comes for that record run to an end, it won’t be at the hands of United. “Personally, I do not see that run ending here although I do think it will be tight. “Both teams love to play counter-attacking football, so I think this one could be a case of cat and mouse. I think both sides are likely to give up some territory so they can execute their counters attacks and if this materialises, I reckon we could be in for a stalemate at Anfield. Liverpool 0, Man United 0.” Commenting on the Fulham vs Chelsea game, Owen said, “Incredibly, Fulham have drawn their last 5 Premier League matches. Their late equaliser against Tottenham showed there’s no question about the fight in their side which is essential when you’re down at the bottom. “Chelsea was pulled apart in their last league match at home to Manchester City. It was a Christmas period to forget for Frank Lampard’s men, and they’ll want to get back to winning ways in their first away match of 2021. “Although Fulham has been playing well, I just think Chelsea will have too much going forward, and with that in mind, I can see them nicking it by the odd goal. Fulham 1, Chelsea 2.” On the Arsenal vs Newcastle United clash, Owen said, “These two were neck and neck for 90 minutes in last week’s FA Cup 3rd round match. They reoppose again here in the Premier League with both sides dropping points in their midweek matches. “Pressure is mounting on Steve Bruce. Their defeat away to Sheffield United did not go down well with the Magpies faithful, and they will be demanding a response here. “Despite Arsenal drawing at home midweek, the vibes around the Emirates are still positive. They are certainly playing with more confidence than they were showing a few weeks ago. I think this one could be tight again, but with spirits so low at Newcastle just now, I can only see one winner. Arsenal 2, Newcastle United 0.” Speaking on the Sheffield United vs Tottenham Hotspur match, Owen said, “Spurs can’t seem to finish sides off just now. It’s a bad habit to get into and one you wouldn’t expect from a Jose Mourinho side. “Sheffield United fans will have shared a collective huge sigh of relief after getting their long-awaited first win of the season against Newcastle. It will be interesting to see how they go from here. The Blades were excellent last season, and if they can play anywhere near that level for the rest of their campaign, it could get very interesting down at the bottom. “That said, Spurs really should be winning this. I think playing away from home suits them better, and if Sheffield United decide to have a go, I could see Messrs Son and Kane pouncing on the counter. Sheffield 1, Tottenham 2.” Liverpool vs Man United is 5: 30 pm, Arsenal vs Newcastle is 9 pm, while that of Fulham vs Chelsea is 6:30 pm and Sheffield vs Tottenham is 3 pm. FA Cup: Michael Owen predicts Chelsea, Tottenham, Man United, Arsenal matches EPL: Michael Owen predicts Arsenal vs Wolves, Chelsea vs Tottenham, Southampton vs Man Utd EPL: Michael Owen predicts Chelsea vs West Ham, Man United vs Leeds, Tottemham vs Leicester, others