Fire, Saturday night, razed down Louis Carter Industries Nigeria Limited, a multi-million Naira motorcycle spare parts and allied products manufacturing company factory based in Akaboukwu Uruagu Nnewi, Anambra State. The company owned by foremost Nnewi industrialist and businessman, Chief Louis Onwugbenu is the manufacturer of Louis Carter brand of motorcycles, which is widely used in the Southeastern part of Nigeria and the South-South. The fire outbreak, a company source said, started by 10:00pm on Saturday, and raged for six hours despite attempts by men of the Anambra State fire service to put it off. It was gathered that the fire defied all the fire extinguishing machines in the company. Even the men of the fire service department who were said to have arrived one hour and thirty minutes after the fire had started, could not extinguish it. General Manager of the company, Mr Ndubisi Okoli said the company’s security men alerted him of the fire last night, adding that it had defied fire extinguisher. “He said the magnitude of the fire could not be put out with fire extinguishers at the factory, and that they had called the fire fighters’ emergency number, which led to the arrival of the men of the department. “The fire was caused by Enugu Electricity Distribution Company’s (EEDC) high tension cable that exploded and sparked off fire to the section of the factory which stores our raw materials. “The raw materials and crushing machines worth over N500million was completely razed down, just as the building was completely burnt too, but no life was lost,” Okoli said. Also reacting, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of Louis Carter Group of Companies, Chief Louis Onwugbenu said the fire incident had caused a huge loss to the company that had hundreds of workers in its employ. Onwugbenu acknowledged the effort of Chief Innocent Chukwuma, Chairman of the Innoson Group and member representing Nnewi North in Anambra State House of Assembly, Hon Nonso Smart who he said were physically present to motivate the firefighters.