Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Apostle Johnson Suleman of Omega Fire Ministries has released 38 prophecies for the year 2021. Suleman in his prophecies during the crossover service in his church, predicted a conspiracy against Nigerian Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. 2. A commissioner with the Anambra State government, Dr Christian Madubuko has resigned his appointment, alleging threat to life and sabotage. Madubuko, who last worked as the Commissioner for Art, Culture and Tourism, turned in his resignation letter, saying that the sabotage he has seen while working as Commissioner in Anambra is the reason it is difficult for Nigeria to develop. 3. Former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe, is dead. Ibidapo-Obe, 71, reportedly died from COVID-19 complications, Sunday afternoon. 4. The Ogun State Government has suspended the Commissioner for Environment, Abiodun Abudu-Balogun. He will remain out of office pending the conclusion of an independent investigation into an allegation of sexual harassment by a 16-year old Barakat Mayowa Melojuek. 5. Ekiti State Government has cancelled the customary interdenominational service scheduled for Monday. Commissioner for Information, Akin Omole explained that the cancellation was part of efforts to curtail the spread of coronavirus in Ekiti. 6. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 917 new coronavirus (COVID-19) infections in the country. According to the public health agency, the total number of infections in the country now stands at 90,080. 7. The Nigerian military has announced that it conducted additional air interdiction missions against Boko Haram at the weekend. Major General John Enenche, Coordinator of Defence Media Operations, in a statement on Sunday, said the Air Task Force of Operation LAFIYA DOLE took out many hideouts. 8. The Chief Medical Director, Federal Teaching Hospital( FETHI), Ido-Ekiti, Ekiti State, Professor Adekunle Ajayi has advised Nigerians to accept the COVID-19 vaccine whenever it is available. The health expert also cautioned Nigerians not to allow the discovery of the vaccine outshine the safety protocols. 9. Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State has dissolved his cabinet. He directed the former cabinet members who were sworn in on December 14, 2019, to hand over to the most senior officers in their respective ministries. 10. About 100 people have been killed in Niger Republic. Scores of militants stormed two villages in the western part of the country.