The legal team of the Bayelsa Police Command on Wednesday made their first appearance before the State Judicial Panel of Inquiry on cases of alleged brutality and extra-judicial killings by personnel in some parts of the state. The military who is also parties to some of the petitions before the Panel did not show up. Out of the 14 cases for mention at the resumed sitting of the Panel Chaired by Justice Emmanuel Ogola (rtd), a total of 10 are against various levels of police personnel in the state. The Police Legal Team led by Barr. Stella Friday at the hearing on Thursday, however, complained that they are yet to be served copies of the petitions filed against its personnel. The spokesman of the Judicial Panel, Comrade Samuel Numenengi confirmed the appearance of the Police legal counsel, affirming the readiness of the Police High command to cooperate with the panel on various petitions against its personnel. DAILY POST learnt on Thursday that among petitions filed against Police personnel include a case of brutality filed by Mrs. Ebiemie Ename against Sargent Faustina over alleged use of a belt to injure one of her eyes during a verbal argument at the market on the 12th of November, 2014. Also Mr. Daniel Kokorifa, an official of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) attached to the Port Harcourt, Rivers State Command, in a petition accused the men of the Anti-Vice unit of the Police Command in August 2016 along the Air force Road area of Okaka-Epie area of Yenagoa Local Government Council of the State of killing his 17 years old son, Innocent Kokorifa. Kokorifa, in the petition dated 4th November 2020 and numbered EAA/PI/BYS/240/2020 through his counsel, E. A. Aluzu Esq and associates, said his 17 years old son was shot from behind at about 11.30am by one Police Corporal Vincent Kohamowei without provocation. Further hearing on the petition was adjourned till 20th of January, 2021. Another petitioner, Eighty-one years old grandfather, Chief Lucky Amakiri also in his petition before the Judicial panel said his grandson, Blessing Amakiri was shot dead by the men of the state police command based on mere suspicion of belonging to a cult group in the state. Chief Amakiri, said his grandson, who was 19 years old boy, was killed by the men of Ekeki Police Division while on an errand at the Former Oyoyo Market in Ovom area of the state capital. Also dragging the authorities of the Bayelsa and Delta State police Commands before the Judicial panel were families of two Police Personnel shot dead on the 14th of June, 2020 in Ughelli, Delta State allegedly by men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad while on special duty alongside five other policemen. In their separate petitions, the families of Sergeant Ondogha Oyindineni and Sgt. Philip Seikpo insisted that the mysterious killings of their children alongside five police officers in Ughelli is suspicious and without any justifiable reasons.