The management of The Polytechnic Ibadan, Oyo State has described the indefinite strike embarked upon by workers in the institution as a counterproductive. The institution made this disclosure via a statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday. The management of the institution in the statement signed by Registrar of the institution, Mrs. Theresa Fawale, added that the strike action by all ramifications may be counterproductive and thus, further negotiations should be explored. DAILY POST recalls that both the academic and non-academic staff of the institution had Monday morning declared an indefinite strike over the non-implementation of minimum wage. But, Fawale, who spoke on behalf of the management of the institution, urged workers of the institution to sheath their sword and return to work. She appealed to the workers to return to work and pave way for further negotiations. Fawale while speaking further described the strike action as a premature and will inflict a lot of damages on the activities of the institution. “The Authorities of The Polytechnic, Ibadan (TPI) have appealed to the workers who commenced an indefinite action today to return to work and pave way for further negotiations. “This strike action is premature and will inflict a lot of damages on the activities of the institution, most especially the on going first semester examination which had suffered series of postponement. “The Management wishes to appeal to the striking workers to return to negotiation table with the government as the strike action would only put more strain on the activities of the institution. “We want to appeal to the Unions to unlock all the gates leading to the institution as there are a lot of Stakeholders who will suffer from this action. “Many Stakeholders with intent to visit the institution for transactions will not be able to gain access into the institution while Staff that reside within the institution and their families will also suffer untold hardship. “The health facilities, by this action will also not be available to the staff, most especially those that reside within the institution. “This strike action by all ramifications may be counterproductive and thus, further negotiations should be explored.”