Muslim youths under the aegis of National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations (NACOMYO) have said the inability of the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde to halt the killings and kidnappings in both Ibarapa and Oke Ogun geo-political zones is responsible for the present civil disturbance in the state. NACOMYO noted that the seeming ineptitude of Makinde to urgently address the plight of the people of the areas resulted in a series of security breaches. DAILY POST gathered that Ibarapa and Oke Ogun geo-political zones have witnessed increased crime resulting in the death of innocent citizens. NACOMYO in its reaction, insisted that the failure of Makinde as the Chief Security Officer of the state to address the spate of crime have resulted civil unrest/arson NACOMYO Coordinator in Oyo State, Dawood Afolabi, in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday reminded Makinde to understand that the primary responsibility of any government is security which will invariably determine its growth and development. Afolabi while advising Makinde to urgently address insecurity in the state, maintained that there can not be any investment in an unsafe environment. He added that the failure of the Governor to visit the affected areas and assure people of protection of their lives and property made the majority of the people in the areas resort to self help. Afolabi said, “The seeming ineptitude of the Oyo state government to address the spate of killings, kidnapping, rape and forceful invasion of farmlands in Igangan, ibarapa area of the state has been identified as the major cause of the recent civil unrest/arson witnessed in the area. “This is because nature abhors a vacuum especially in emergencies like insecurity in which survival strategies can not be limited to those approved by law rather than those perceived as effective to guarantee people’s safety. “This perhaps accounted for resorting to self help or seeking the help of ethnic militia and opportunists as activists. “Since it became an every day affair for people to be in bondage of money minded criminals in Ibarapa and Oke Ogun, the Governor never paid a visit to commiserate with the victims We also wonder what the Amotekun corps are doing and the village vigilantes under the Baales and village heads. What is clear is that there could not be any external insurrection without the collusion of internal traitors. “The Council acknowledged the replacement of the Service Chiefs which is long overdue hoping that there will be a positive change in the security architecture of the nation. “NACOMYO however wishes to remind the states and local governments as other tiers of government benefiting from the distribution of national treasury to take more results-yielding approaches. They should know that the primary responsibility of any government is security which will invariably determine its growth and development as there can not be any investment in an unsafe environment. “We strongly condemn attempts to ascribe the crimes to a particular ethnic group as criminality has no religious or ethnic boundaries. For those who are bent on the secession of the Yoruba tribe from Nigeria criminalising or demonising a particular tribe they think is the quickest way to achieve their obnoxious and irresponsible ambition. They lack a sense of history. Those who saw hell during the Biafran war will not pray for a civil war.”