The Kaduna State government says all schools in the state should remain closed, excluding Kaduna Polytechnic and the National Open University. The state permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs Phoebe Sukai Yayi, in a statement explained that the state government was yet to decide the exact date when schools will be opened. The statement explained that the clarification became necessary, because of the federal government’s directive for schools to resume. “We know that the federal government stated that schools can resume on Monday the 18 of January 2021 following the closure of schools last year due to the second wave of COVID- 19 but the situation is different in Kaduna State. Mrs Phoebe explained that following the second wave, the state now has an increase in the number of confirmed cases. The statement declared, “We want to make it categorically clear that, Kaduna State government is yet to fix a date for resumption to schools.” It noted that as much as the federal government has declared 18 January as the date for resumption Kaduna State is yet to declare a date for resumption. The statement pointed out that the government was still monitoring the situation and promised to make pronouncement regarding resumption in due course. ”Tomorrow, Monday, the Ministry of Education, would hold a stakeholders meeting, also the state ministry of health would brief on the COVID- 19 cases and take a position on how to advise the government. The Permanent Secretary said the only exception they have, for now, are the National Open University of Nigeria and Kaduna Polytechnic who have specifically requested for them to open for students to write semester examinations only. The statement explained that the government has inspected the school premises, confirmed their preparedness and satisfied all the protocols put in place and given them the approval to open for exams only. It requested that state or federal Institutions in Kaduna State, hold on their activities until the government comes up with a clear date for resumption. It said, “For Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, we are yet to receive any communication from them, so as far as we know, ABU Zaria is still closed until we receive a directive from Kaduna State government.”