The Igbo professional group, Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), has asked the Federal Government to demand the extradition of the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu from the United Kingdom. The professionals in an open letter to the Federal Government urged it to immediately proceed with calls to ensure that Kanu faces the law over his involvement in alleged treasonable felony. In the open letter dated January 8th, 2021 and addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, the group explained that its action was based on Kanu’s activities in relation to IPOB in the country. The National President of the group, Prof. Madumere Chika alleged that the IPOB leader was hiding under the cordial relationship between Nigeria both countries to carry out activities. Describing Kanu as a fugitive who escaped Nigeria after being granted bail following allegations of treasonable felony, the coalition suggested that Israel and the UK can repatriate him given that he is in the nation’s wanted list. The group said Kanu, having evaded justice in the country, boasted in a viral internet live broadcast that he will never submit to the trial that was suspended because of his disappearance from the country. The Coalition appealed to all foreign nations to direct their embassies to cooperate and assist Nigeria in tracking down Kanu and hand him over to Nigerian authorities to face the law of the land. “We are constrained to write this open letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria through the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately write the Government of the United Kingdom, requesting the extradition of our fugitive son and founder of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Nigeria to continue his trial over alleged treasonable felony,” the group said. The group alleged that the IPOB leader was taking advantage of his sojourn abroad to cause insurrection by inciting members of the proscribed IPOB to violence. It recalled that, in the eyes of the law, IPOB remains a terrorist organisation, as it had been so declared by a Federal High Court in Abuja. “We call on both the UK and Israel not to be seen to be facilitating the inglorious activities of a fugitive in Nigeria. Nnamdi Kanu incites violence, call him to order - Igbo group tells UK, Israel End SARS: Ohanaeze urges youths to vacate street of South-East, South-South Maina: Arewa youths react to detention of Ndume, question failure to arrest Abaribe over Nnamdi Kanu