The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, has come under fire for asking the outgoing US President Donald Trump to emulate President Muhammadu Buhari. Olusegun Bamgbose, a chieftain of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, also noted that it was rather very ridiculous and hypocritical of APC to condemn the breach at the Capitol in USA recently. President Trump is being accused of having incited the deadly attack on the Capitol on Wednesday. It was said to be a part of his move to stop the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win by the Congress. And in its reaction, the Nigerian ruling party, APC had appealed to Trump to emulate Buhari who they claimed is a democrat. In his reaction during a chat with DAILY POST on Monday, Bamgbose wondered how on earth APC can have the audacity to ask Trump to emulate Buhari. “What is APC taking Nigeria for? During the build up to 2015 elections, Buhari was quoted to have threatened that monkey and baboon will be soaked in blood, could that be the person Trump should emulate? It’s really funny. “Let’s set the matter straight, President Buhari is yet to showcase his democratic credentials. He cannot be seen as a true democrat. “Trump’s government never refuted that people lost their lives at the riot at the Capitol. Could that be same with Lekki Toll Gate killings? Up till date, the Nigerian Government has denied the shootings by the military. “APC should stop fooling themselves by comparing Trump with Buhari. The difference is very clear. APC equally mentioned integrity and strong institutions to drive home their point for Trump to emulate Buhari, the truth however is that APC has no integrity. “They have weakened the institutions. The party is jaundiced. Nigeria will be worse off if APC wins again in 2023. APC has actually brought bad luck to Nigeria. “Nigerians must do away with APC come 2023, or else Nigeria should forget about dividends of democracy. One seriously doubts whether APC has what it takes to move the nation forward. Nigerians should wake up and plan the exit of APC come 2023. The party has outlived its usefulness,” he said.