Ahead of the commencement of the registration exercise of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has warned stakeholders against shutting out any “existing or intending” member from registering, and the manipulation or hijack of the process by political interests, saying such actions will only draw the party backwards. The Governor also warned that those found perpetrating the aforementioned shall be made to face the party’s disciplinary procedures. He charged stakeholders of the party to mobilise members at all levels and ensure that new persons are attracted into the party. Lalong stated this during a stakeholders meeting of the party held in Jos, the State Capital, and presided over by the State Chairman, Chief Letep Dabang. He charged the stakeholders to fully participate in the exercise by ensuring that existing members and new members are encouraged into the party so as to bolster the party’s position in the State. According to him, “Our party needs to consolidate on the gains it has made over the years by drawing in more people during the exercise. “At this juncture, I will like to warn against allowing individual interests and ambitions to interfere with the process whose guidelines have been clearly set out by the national leadership of the party. The Governor also urged the members to be wary of propaganda by the opposition who are bent on discrediting the good works and achievements of the party in order to discourage existing and new members from participating in the registration exercise. “As members of the APC, it is our collective responsibility to project the achievements of the government wherever we find ourselves”, he maintained. “As we set out to revalidate and register more members into our party, we should realise that it is our works that will speak for us and that our opponents will naturally stage their propaganda to try to dissuade people from registering. “The people of Plateau State know where we took over from the PDP and the difference we have made. “There is substantial peace and more visitors and investors are coming into the State”, he stressed. In his remarks, Chairman of the party in the State, chief Letep Dabang, said the stakeholders meeting was primarily to strategize on how to conduct a hitch free registration exercise in Plateau State. Latep said the party structures across the State have been put on alert as pre-sensitization had started even before the guidelines were issued from the national headquarters. He read out the guidelines set by the national headquarters of the party and disclosed that the committees to conduct the exercise in the State is being drawn out with the participation of all stakeholders, urging them to show good conduct and lead by example to deny opponents any window of distraction. Those who attended the meeting included National and State Assembly members, State Working Committee members, Local Government Chairmen, members of the State Executive Council, Local Government Party Chairmen, and federal appointees.