Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday, revalidated his membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The president revalidated his membership status at his Sarkin Yara polling unit in Daura, Katsina State. He was accompanied by some APC governors, the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and the party national leaders. 2. Nigerian troops in collaboration with the Multi-Joint Task Force (MNJTF) have killed additional Boko Haram commanders. The coordinated operation was carried out on Friday, 48 hours after a similar offensive. Top insurgents, Ali Bor and Maleum Modu were killed. Other Boko Haram members were also eliminated at different locations in Borno bushes infested with terrorists. 3. President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Lieutenant Colonel Y.M. Dodo as his new Aide-De-Camp (ADC). Dodo replaces Colonel Muhammad Abubakar, who has been in the position since 2015. Dodo, until his new appointment, was the Academy Adjutant of the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. 4. Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation has said Muslim-Muslim ticket in 2015 between President Muhammadu Buhari and Asiwaju Tinubu would have torn Nigeria apart. Fani-Kayode said this while reacting to a statement by a former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola that Ex-President, Olusegun Obasanjo was responsible for truncating the Buhari-Tinubu presidential ticket in 2015. 5. The Kaduna State Government on Saturday, said fleeing bandits were neutralized in air operations over Giwa Local Government Area. This was contained in a statement by Mr. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State. Aruwan further said more missions were conducted over locations in Birnin Gwari, Chikun and Igabi LGAs. 6. 21 persons travelling along Kaduna-Kachia road were on Friday evening abducted by unknown gunmen in military uniform. A councillor from Southern Kaduna and few others were able to escape from the abductors and ran through the bush. Meanwhile, security agencies are yet to release any information about the situation. 7. Nigeria on Saturday recorded One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-Three (1883) new cases of COVID-19. This was announced on the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, Twitter page on Saturday night. It confirmed that Nigeria now has 130,557 cases of the infection and the country had recorded a total of 1579 coronavirus-related deaths so far. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians of full implementation of the 2021 budget. The President said that there will be transparency and openness in meeting the targets, while appreciating the National Assembly for the effective and detailed attention before the passage. The president was speaking to newsmen in Daura, Katsina State. 9. The students of the Lagos State University, LASU, have rejected the approved reduction of their tuition fee by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, saying all they want is a reversal to the old rate. The students took this position in a statement on Saturday night by the Public Relations Officer of the Student Union Government, Adams Zaenab Olawumi. 10. The National Association of Seadogs, NAS, has accused the Federal Government of pampering cattle herders, thereby emboldening the criminal elements among them to unleash violence on innocent citizens. This was contained in a statement issued by the NAS Capoon, Abiola Owoaje at the weekend.