The Vice-Chancellor of Modibbo Adama University, Yola, Prof. Abdullahi Liman Tukur has stated that the University has transformed from a technologically-based institution to a conventional one. He spoke in Abuja while leading a team of Adamawa citizens on a thank you visit to the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, adding that it was the amendment to the Act of the school that made the new status possible. The upper and lower legislative chambers passed the amendment bill into law in December last year, which has been assented by President Buhari penultimate Wednesday, 6th January, 2021. Speaking with newsmen, the VC pointed out that the ivory tower would now be offering conventional courses, stating that the word ‘technology’ had in the past inhibited the institution from running management courses. He was optimistic that the students’ population which currently stand at 2,500 will increase greatly in the next academic session, particularly that management faculties would now be up and running. “My visit to the President of the Senate along with Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed, is to thank the National Assembly for the all encompassing legislation made on the University and assented to, by President Muhamnadu Buhari. “With the new status, machineries are being put in place to make the University very universal like other conventional ones as against specialized status it started with . “Technological courses will still be run in the University but other equally important ones in the area of management , Social and Medical Sciences will also be added in living up to the new status with attendant multiplier effects in so many ways for the University, Adamawa State and Nigeria as a country “, he said. Sponsor of the bill that conferred a new status in the University, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed Binani had in an earlier statement urged the school to commence new courses that are compatible with the school now, with a view to getting them accredited as soon as possible, particularly medical and allied sciences The lawmaker said: “This will no doubt encourage our teeming youths seeking placements into Tertiary Institutions specifically in these difficult times to realize their ambitions “Apart from leading in technology, the new law will make Modibbo Adama University to be truly universal with broader courses and enhanced opportunities.”