Some policemen who were deployed to monitor the gubernatorial election in Ondo State have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Muhammad Adamu to intervene in the release of their election allowances. The officers are making the call three months after they were deployed to monitor the gubernatorial election in Ondo State. Recall that Ondo State held its governorship election which saw Rotimi Akeredolu emerge as governor on the 10th of October 2020. Findings by DAILY POST, however, showed that no fewer than ten thousand Policemen who were deployed for the election from 24 commands are yet to be paid their election allowances. DAILY POST recalls that some of the affected police officers had earlier raised an alarm over the non-payment of allowances. Some of the affected policemen who spoke with DAILY POST again said that about 10,000 policemen deployed from Oyo, Osun, Ogun and 21 other states are yet to receive their allowances. They appealed to the outgoing Inspector General of Police, Mr. Adamu to ensure the payment of the allowances before he leaves the office. The policemen urged President Muhamadu Buhari to intervene to ensure that their entitlements are not further delayed. One of the affected policemen who spoke with DAILY POST on Wednesday said, “From a reliable source, police officers and rank and files were co opted from 24 commands and formations. “Almost ten thousand men, those are the second batch whom they refused to pay till date.” Another police officer who spoke with DAILY POST said, “The pàinful aspect is that we spent one-week feeding and accommodating ourselves and all inconveniences not underscoring the risks associated with policing during elections. “When returning, one officer lost her life and one severely injured still receiving treatment till date. “We were to be paid between 40,000 to 100,000 depending on the ranks. To add insult, the ten thousand the state government purportedly gave us did not get to us while mobile men were paid when they sensed trouble. 300 men average from various commands. We seek President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention urgently.” All efforts made by DAILY POST to get a reaction from the Force Public Relations Officer, Mr. Frank Mba since Wednesday has yielded no results. Calls put through to Mba’s mobile phone on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday were not answered. Similarly, SMS sent to him on the matter on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday requesting a response was not replied until the time of filing this report on Friday.