Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu says he remains fully committed to the total restoration of the glory of Aba, the Enyimba City. Governor Ikpeazu stated this on Wednesday, at the Governor’s Lodge, Aba, when he received a delegation of UMU ABA WORLDWIDE, an association made up young men who were born and bred in Aba but are currently living in different countries of the world. According to Governor Ikpeazu, “Aba is my home. But it goes beyond that. It is the economic center of our state and Ala Igbo in general. Aba houses everyone and they make their money in Aba and help to develop other parts of the state and our region. I will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the town gets the required attention. “We have invested heavily in the infrastructural development of Aba and my emphasis is to do projects that are sustainable, not the kind that will be gone after one or two rainy seasons. “If you check well, all the roads we have completed and commissioned since 2015 are still standing in top shape. My decision to deploy cement technology, though more expensive, is to ensure that our roads last for several years”. Ikpeazu, who told the group that he will never stop working until his last day in office as Governor, also used the opportunity to announce that work will commence on Port Harcourt road very shortly.  The Chief Executive Officer of Abia State reminded them that drainage works had been completed on PH road and that what is now remaining is the main road work. He promised to deliver a brand new Port Harcourt road before he leaves office. He also assured them that in the next 18 months, a brand new Ngwa Road, Ohanku, Obohia and Uratta roads will come to life to the delight of everyone. The Governor challenged them to bring their investments back home to Aba, pointing out that his administration is working hard to make the environment safe and conducive for business. He assured them that their request for land to build a housing estate for their members would be given adequate consideration. Earlier, the President of the association, Mr Uche Milo told the Governor that they came to appreciate him for the massive turn around they are witnessing in Aba after many years of rot. He said that what they saw this Christmas when they came back gladdened their hearts and reminded them of the Aba of old. He told the Governor that with what they have seen on ground now, they will effectively start establishing a tangible presence at home. Also speaking, the Vice President of the group and an ex-soccer international, James Igwilo, told the Governor that their members were very impressed with the emerging scenes of development in Aba and assured him that they will partner with his administration in different ways to make the town better. He said that they were also interested in youth development through sports and would use their contacts abroad to assist young Aba soccer players to push their careers abroad.