A serving youth corps member in Edet Akpan Avenue, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, has been arrested for allegedly murdering a man suspected to be her lover. The suspect, Chidinma Oduma Pascaline, said the deceased, Akwaowo Japhet, took her to his house at Abak road Uyo, picked up a machete and attempted to kill her. She added that she was able to dispossess him of the machete and used the same machete on him which led to his death. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Odiko MacDon confirmed the incident and said the Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, has ordered a discreet investigation into the matter. He said, “On Sunday around 11am, we received a distress call from our control room and so we had to send our policemen to No 219 Abak road, where one Chidinma Oduma Pascaline, a youth corper who is serving at Edet Akpan avenue Uyo was at the verge of being lynched by an irate mob but the police rescued her. ”The suspect who should be about 25 or 26 years old is already in our custody. The Police commissioner has ordered a thorough investigation into the matter and as soon as the investigation is over the matter will be charged to court. Also, the Coordinator of NYSC Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Julius Amusan, confirmed the incident saying he was shocked at the development. He said he did not have full details of the incident but was relying on police investigations and reports. According to him, “we depend on Police reports because we are not eyewitnesses. The information on the matter did not get to me until 5pm on Sunday evening when somebody called to inform me that a female corp member killed her lover. “When the report came, I doubted it because it sounds strange that a female Corps member will kill a man. It sounded unbelievable, it is something very unusual. ” I made a call to the police headquarters and at that time they were unable to give me details of the incident. “It was when I got to the police that we were able to establish what really happened. It is a very unfortunate development that such a thing would happen.