Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Muhammad Badaru Abubakar said, the All Progressives Congress is always ready to accept people from the opposition parties into its fold. DAILY POST reports that the major opposition party, PDP, in the state had recently been in crisis over the leadership of the party as the faction of the former Governor, Sule Lamido and a two time Gubernatorial candidate, Aminu Ibrahim Ringim battle for supremacy. This started after the 2019 general election where the latter accused the Lamido’s camp for anti-party activities which led to their loss at the state elections. The development consequently led to the conduct of a parallel ward congress between the two factions, an action that led to the cancellation of the two ward congresses by the national headquarters, Abuja which constituted caretakers committee to bring harmony and conduct fresh elections of the party. But Governor Muhammad Badaru Abubakar has disclosed that the party was waiting to receive aggrieved PDP members into the fold of the APC. He said the APC door was always open to opposition parties who are satisfied with the positive development the APC-led government is bringing into the lives of Nigerians and are ready to work for the party. Some Peoples Democratic Party’s chieftains have been decamping to the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Jigawa State since 2015. Those that decamped included the former Governor, Ali Sa’adu, former Deputy Governor under Sule Lamido, Ahmad Mahmud and his Secretary to the State Government, Lawan Abdu. Also some senators and members of the House of Representatives that decamped to APC include: Sen. Ibrahim Dudu, Sen. Bello Maitama, Sen. Muhammadu Alkali, Sen Sabo Muhammad Nakudu, Hon Bashir Adamu Jumbo, Hon, Tijani Gaya and Hon Shitu Galambi. Other PDP chieftains that dumped the party are ex-governor Lamido’s Commissioners, including Barrister Yakubu Ruba, a former Commissioner of Justice, former Commissioner of Water Resources, Alhaji Abdulqadir Jinjiri Dutse and former Commissioner of Women Affairs, Hajiya Fatima wedi Jalo, former Commissioner of Works, Baba Aliyu Santali and two Commissioners of Agriculture, Hon Nasidi Ali and Mutari Birniwa. Governor Muhammad Badaru, however, said those that decamped or interested in joining the party would be treated fairly like other members of the party. “We will do justice to anyone who has joined our party or interested in joining,”Badaru assured.