Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. The Federal Government, on Tuesday, announced preparation for the 2021 Nigeria Armed Forces Day. The government ordered the closure of roads accessing Arcade, the phase I, II and III of the Federal Secretariat complexes and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Abuja. 2. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, declared Tuesday in Abuja that the demons frustrating the passage and Presidential Assent to the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) within the last 14 years, will be defeated this year by the 9th National Assembly. Lawan, told journalists on his 62 birthday celebration, that the patriotic zeal used by the National Assembly in October 2019, to pass the Amendment Bill on Deep Offshore Oil Production Sharing Contracts, will be deployed for expeditious consideration and passage of the PIB already before it, latest by the end of first quarter of this year. 3. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, has welcomed efforts by a team of Nigerian professors and scientists investigating the effectiveness and roles some drugs can play in the treatment of COVID-19. Osinbajo, who was briefed on the report yesterday by a team of scientists led by Prof. Femi Babalola, the Principal investigator, and Prof. Chris Bode, the Chief Medical Director of LUTH, expressed happiness that Nigeria and Nigerians “are at the cutting edge of scientific research into the COVID-19 treatment.” 4. Despite the Federal Government’s decision to review schools reopening on January 18, the Bauchi State government on Tuesday insisted schools in the State will reopen for the first term of the 2020/2021 academic session next Monday. The Bauchi State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Aliyu Tilde, said all schools in the state would reopen on Monday, 18th January irrespective of any review made by the Federal Government. 5. Gunmen have shot dead a councillorship candidate in the forthcoming local government elections, in Delta State, Mr. Elliot Offa. The gunmen also abducted two others who were with the deceased at the time of the incident. 6. The Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, has said that the Federal Government will be left with no other option but to impose another lockdown if the rise in COVID-19 cases continues. The Minister, during the 2021 budget breakdown in Abuja on Tuesday, prayed that the situation should not get to that point when Nigerians would be forced to stay in their home again. 7. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has said that it was reviewing its adopted technologies for elections, with a view of introducing new ones to improve the conduct of the elections in the country ahead of 2023. Mr. Nick Dazang, the INEC Director of Voter Education and Publicity Department (VEP), stated this on Tuesday, at a workshop for the department on the “Review of National Voter Education Manual” held in Keffi, Nasarawa State, disclosed that INEC began the process for electronic voting since 2004 when it introduced optic map registration forms. 8. Security operatives, on Tuesday, conducted further air missions over locations in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, even as they rescued a minor from bandits in Igabi Local Government Area. Confirming the rescue of the minor, the state Commissioner for Internal security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan explained that, “in continuation of offensives over identified bandit hideouts, air platforms on Tuesday conducted armed missions over locations in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area.” 9. Unknown gunmen have killed two persons and wounded two others in Kizachi village, Kauru LGA area of Kaduna State. Confirming the killings on Tuesday, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan said troops under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven reported an attack on Kizachi village in Kauru local government area. 10. The Director of the Kaduna State Fire Service, Mr Paul Aboi, has said seventy-six persons died in 615 fire incidents recorded in the State in 2020. The Director, who disclosed this on Tuesday, said 139 persons were injured in the fire incidents, while 85 people were rescued.