International education, foreign travel and tourism has drastically reduced student mobility in the recent months however this hasn’t deterred parents from seeking high quality education for their wards. Due to apparent uncertainty occasioned by the recent lockdowns, parents have resorted to online education as a means of keeping they recently graduated high school wards meaningfully engaged during the lockdown.  Due to recent surge in demand for Canadian Education, Carpa Education has been appointed an official representative of Toronto Film School and Yorkville University in Nigeria. This will allow Nigerian Students to apply, get accepted and study online in the interim, pending when the lockdown is lifted. Once its safe to engage in international travel, students would then be allowed to apply for visas and travel to Canada for on-campus education. Available course at Toronto Film School include Acting for Film, Fashion Design, Film Production. Graphic Design & Interactive Media, Marketing for Fashion & Entertainment, Video Game Design & Animation, Video Game Design & Development, Writing for Film & TV. Courses available at Yorkville University include Bachelor of Business Administration, Bachelor of Interior Design, Bachelor of Creative Arts and many more. Work during your studies International students are eligible to work on and off campus while studying full-time, and will qualify for a full-time work permit after graduation. You can work up to 20 hours a week while studying and full-time during scheduled breaks. Why Study in Canada ? 1. Canada Is a Wonderful Place to Live and Study: Since 2004, the United Nations has regularly ranked Canada in the top 10 countries in the world in its Quality of Life Index. 2. Canadian Education Is World Class: Canada is also ranked #1 by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for higher education achievement—more than half of its citizens between the ages of 25 and 64 have a post-secondary education. 3. Canada Is Multicultural and Open to the World: Canada is officially bilingual (English and French), and across the country, more than 200 languages are spoken. 4. Canada Is Innovative: Canada’s educational institutions have long been incubators for innovation. The BlackBerry, flat-screen technology, SMART boards, voice compression applications for cell phones and computers, and IMAX film are among the many revolutionary technologies invented and developed by men and women who studied in Canada. 5. Canada Is a Highly Competitive Economy: Canada has one of the world’s most stable economies. Canada also boasts one of the fastest economic growth rates among the G8 countries, and the International Monetary Fund predicts this trend to continue 6. Canada Is a Major Player in Collaborative Research and
Development: Many of Canada’s educational institutions are engaged in international research partnerships to address major issues facing our world today. About Carpa Education Carpa Education is an International Education Agency, which provides immigration advice and application assistance to Nigerian students who desire to study abroad. We provide support to international students who wish to study in China, Canada, and the UK. Our activities also incorporate guidelines of Study UK, ICEF, CCEA and other professional bodies. In addition to the professional code of conducts, we observe ethical, moral and personal values to maintain high standards in our work.  In 2019, Carpa Education took part in the United Nations International Youth Day activities tagged “Transforming Education”.   About Toronto Film School Toronto Film School offers a fast and effective path to an exciting career in film, television, theatre, fashion, graphic design or video game design. Toronto Film School, ranked as a top film school by the QS World University Rankings, offers a fast-paced, hands-on and highly collaborative learning environment, designed to arm you with the theory and skills needed to align your career aspirations with your creative talents. Whether you are passionate about film, design, video games or fashion, Toronto Film School is where you will find a supportive community, award-winning instructors, and a network of creative peers to propel you into the career you dream of. Additional Information Carpa Education is Scheduled to host a Free Career Seminar with the following topics i. Achieving career success ii. Talent driven career choice iii. Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship iv. University Education versus Vocational Education v. Need for career mentorship vi. Positioning yourself for careers of the future Date : February 1 to February 3 At Carpa Education offices located at 183 Ikot Ekpene Road Uyo, Akwa Ibom state, Nigeria. Contact TELEPHONE +2347088660078, +2348080808718, +2347088889366
EMAIL edu@carpaeducation.com WEBSITE www.carpaeducation.com