Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. COVID-19 infections in Nigeria have continued to surge as the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) recorded 1,633 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 120,602. The health agency said that five additional people died from coronavirus-related complications in the past 24 hours, bringing the death toll to 1,502. 2. Sunday Igboho has reiterated his position that Fulani herdsmen must leave Oyo State. The Yoruba activist made the declaration to a team of soldiers and policemen. In a video obtained on Saturday, Igboho told the security agents he would not back down on his demand. 3. The All Progressives Congress has reportedly announced the postponement of the proposed nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise slated to hold on Monday. This was contained in a statement signed by the Secretary of the Caretaker/National Convention Planning Committee of the party, Senator John Akpanudoedehe in Abuja, on Saturday. However, a new directive appears to have overtaken that earlier announcement. 4. The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, has aired his opinion on the tension in Oyo State. Speaking on Saturday at the Royal Festival of Praise organised by the Holy Ghost Royal House of Restoration Church in Ibadan, the monarch appealed to farmers and herders in Ibarapa and Nigeria, in general, to live in peace. 5. The Muslim Rights Concern, MURIC, has called on the federal government to engage in dialogue and consultation over the crisis between Yoruba youths and Fulani herdsmen in the Southwest. A statement signed by the organization’s Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola said the government should dialogue with stakeholders with a view to finding solutions to the crisis. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Saturday, advocated the restructuring of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) amid his seeming objection to similar clamour by Nigerians. He urged the regional body to streamline its management in a way that would conform with current realities. 7. The Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) says it is exploring areas of support from the United Kingdom in the fight against terrorism. Chief of Military Public Information, Col. Muhammad Dole, announced this in a statement on Saturday. 8. President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana and Chairman of the ECOWAS Heads of State and Government has called for concerted action against insecurity in the region. Akufo-Addo, who spoke on Saturday during the 58th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Governments, expressed concern over deadly terror attacks in Mali, northeastern Nigeria, Burkina Faso and Niger. 9. It was a black Saturday in Akungba-Akoko, Akoko South West Local Government Area of Ondo State following the death of students and residents of the community who were killed by an articulated truck. The cement-laden truck belonging to Dangote Group was said to have lost control before ramming into some open shops opposite Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, AAUA. 10. The Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG, has called on all Northern communities in the south to come back home safely before considering the next move. The spokesman of CNG, Suleiman Abdul-Azeez, in a statement linked the warning to herdsmen in the south-west to a grand design to destabilize Nigeria and in particular bring the North to its knees.