Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Nigeria on Friday recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in one day. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed 1,867 infections. With this, Nigeria has now recorded 107,345 coronavirus cases and 1,413 deaths officially. 2. The Lagos State Government has confirmed that all public and private schools below tertiary level, will resume on Monday, January 18, 2021. The Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, who made this known on Friday, said this will be the start of the second term for the 2020/2021 academic session. 3. The Edo State government has postponed the resumption of all primary and secondary schools in the state to Monday, February 1, 2021. Gov. Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this on Friday at a press briefing in Benin City, stressed that the state government will officially carry out an assessment of health facilities across the various schools and ensure strict compliance with COVID-19 protocol. 4. The global coronavirus death toll has surpassed 2 million. The figure is double of the 1 million recorded in the last week of September 2020. America is the worst-hit nation with 400,000 deaths and more than 23.5 million infections, according to Johns Hopkins Hospital. 5. The FCT Administration has directed all schools in Abuja to resume on Monday January 18. Leramoh Abdulrazaq, Acting Secretary and Director, Administration and Finance, who made the announcement on Friday, said the resumption was in line with the Federal Ministry of Education directive. 6. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has warned President Muhammadu Buhari administration to stop relying on imported COVID-19 vaccines. Dipo Akomolafe, ASUU Chairman, Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology (OAUSTECH), told newsmen on Friday that the federal government should encourage universities and research institutes to find treatment. 7. The Kaduna State Government COVID-19 Task Force officials have rescued 160 children from locations that are neither authorised and licensed as schools nor as children’s homes in the state. Muyiwa Adekeye, the Special Adviser to the State Governor on Media and Communication, Friday, said some of the rescued children are toddlers who aren’t yet able to properly identify themselves. 8. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to change Nigeria’s Service Chiefs. Wike said it was high time new strategies were deployed to tackle internal insecurity. 9. Some residents of Coca Cola, Leventis, Ajibade, Ajegunle, Oke- Itunu and neighbouring communities within Ibadan North Local government area have deserted their homes and shops. Report said the trouble started in the area when a suspected thief was arrested by the residents on Thursday and thereafter killed by an angry mob from the area. 10. A former member of the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abdulmumuni Ningi, was on Thursday night kidnapped by some unknown gunmen in Bauchi metropolis. The ex-lawmaker, who represented Ningi State Constituency in the last Assembly, was said to have been abducted by four gun-wielding men who trailed him from the town to his house around the BSADP area at Isa Yuguda Guest House.