Amotekun leader in Oyo State, General Kunle Togun, retd, has raised the alarm that a large number of fully armed Fulani herders are trooping into the State from foreign lands through Saki East, Saki West and Atisbo Local Government Areas. The retired Army General said this during the Yoruba World Assembly, YWA’s first traditional security summit held at the old House of Chiefs, Parliament Buildings Secretariat in Ibadan. The Amotekun chairman who was absent from the meeting as the chief guest of honour, forwarded the message to the Chairman, Governing Council and Secretary-General of YWA, Chief Taye Ayorinde and Dr. Victor Taiwo respectively, explaining the reason for his absence. “I am still in Saki area. The Fulani herdsmen are trooping in, in large numbers to Saki East and Saki West as well as Atisbo Local Government areas of the expansive Opara Forest reserve,” his message reads He said, however, that his “boy”, who he described as “very experienced,” have been very successful, calling on seasoned hunters in the state to assist Amotekun. He maintained that the armed herders are not Nigerians, adding that, “Amulets, charms, poisoned arrows and daggers already seized from them are about six bags as of now.” He further disclosed that, “some community chiefs and traditional rulers are among those inviting them.” He further disclosed that two chiefs who are allegedly among those bringing in armed herdsmen into the State are to be investigated by Amotekun. Meanwhile, the Governor of the State, Seyi Makinde, has issued a stern warning to traditional rulers in the state. The Governor in a statement on Thursday warned the traditional chiefs against allocating land to any foreigner without proper documentation. Makinde who noted that this is one of the major causes of insecurity in the state, said such would not be tolerated. The Governor’s warning was contained in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, where he insisted that his government will ensure that every foreigner in Oyo State are properly documented very soon. The Governor added that foreigners working in the mining site will be documented, adding that a task force is being set up to do this. In another development, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) on Thursday accused Amotekun of intimidating other ethnic groups living and doing businesses in the region. MURIC said that members of the South West security outfit are profiling and intimidating Northerners traveling down the south. It further accused the security outfit of engaging in extra-judicial killings of Yoruba people. 