Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Friday evening signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with PowerDot, a United Kingdom-based energy firm, on provision of uninterrupted electricity through incineration of municipal solid waste to energy at an affordable cost. The MoU, which is a $70million investment, according to a press statement signed and made available to DAILY POST by the Senior Special Assistant on Media to the Governor, Muktar Gidado, covered provision of 10 megawatts of power through waste. Speaking shortly after signing the MoU at the Mini Chamber, Government House, Bauchi, Governor Mohammed pledged to provide the required support for the smooth execution of the firm’s project in the state.  The governor, who further pledged to protect the UK firm’s investment in the state, observed that the initiative would enhance internally generated revenue, create employment opportunities in addition to bringing industrialisation to the state. “Today is a very auspicious day. We welcome you to Bauchi and we extend our solidarity to your partners. We will do all the needful for you to operate effectively in our state. “This MoU that we have signed to provide 10 megawatts of power through waste is key towards providing good governance,” Gidado quited the governor to have said.  Governor Mohammed declared the interest of his administration to continue to partner with the Federal Government to comply with power regulations to harness the enough waste abound in the state. In a remark, the Group Managing Director of the firm, Ambassador Anthony Esere, said Bauchi State was the second in the entire Africa to benefit from such investment from the organisation. Esere, who said the firm would commence work in the state in March this year, noted that the initiative would bring positive development to the state. “Your Excellency, our organisation is very pleased to be in Bauchi State to bring investment of $70 million,” Esere said.  The governor’s media aide informed that the Chairman, Bauchi State House of Assembly Committee on Environment and Forestry, Honorable Musa Wakili Nakwada, described the initiative as a welcome development and timely investment to the state. Earlier, the Director General, Bauchi State Environmental Protection Agency (BASEPA), Dr Ibrahim Kabir, said the investment would go a long way in boosting critical sectors of the economy including, power and environment. 