Some suspected gunmen have kidnapped another farmer in Oyo State. DAILY POST gathered on Tuesday that the gunmen on Monday kidnapped one Mr. Monsuru Aderoju, at Oke Agbede area of Igangan, a town in Ibarapa geo-political zone of the state. Our correspondent gathered that the kidnap of Aderoju, who is a cassava farmer is coming less than three weeks after the abduction of a farmer along the old Ibadan/ Oyo Road in Ibadan. The abduction of Aderoju is coming two days after the killing of Mr. Sherifat Adisa, a petroleum dealer who owns Subawah petroleum and two children as well as the kidnap of a medical doctor in Ibarapa North Local Government Area. Our correspondent gathered that no fewer than five people have been kidnapped in the state in the last three weeks. It was gathered that among the five people kidnapped in the last three weeks are a woman kidnapped at a Quarry site in Moniya, a farmer kidnapped along old Ibadan/Oyo road, Mrs. Jimoke Oludele-Babalola, an elder sister to Mr. Sunkanmi Babalola, member representing Egbeda State Constituency in the Oyo State House of Assembly, a medical doctor in Ibarapa North Local government area and Aderoju who was kidnapped on Monday. DAILY POST gathered that out of the five people kidnapped in the last three weeks, only one of them, Mrs. Jimoke Oludele-Babalola has been released. Convener of Igangan Development Advocates, Mr. Oladokun Oladiran confirmed the kidnap of Aderoju on Tuesday. Oladiran said that Aderoju popularly known as Alhaji Monsuru was trailed to his home at Oke Agbède in Igangan, where he was kidnapped Monday evening. He said, “Monsuru Aderoju by name was kidnapped by unknown strangers suspected to be the now entrenched Fulani kidnapping circus on Monday evening. “He resides at Oke àgbède Igangan. The Business tycoon supplies cassava, married with one wife and 2kids. “After he finished 8pm Muslim prayer and decided to go home, according to the information from the reliable source, two of the kidnapper attended the same prayer session. “However, their strange faces only generated some suspicion and the saga unfolded. They were not thought to be threat. They must have trailed him home and carried out their evil act. “The state is too bureaucratic about this, there are times you throw away the garb of unnecessary bureaucracy to save lives.” Efforts by DAILY POST to get reaction from Public Relations Officer of the state Police command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi proved to be abortive. Calls put through to his mobile number were not answered while a text message sent to him has not been replied as at the time of filing this report on Tuesday.