Abia State Governor, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has congratulated the people of Abia State on the New Year, 2021. Ikpeazu thanked to God for his love and kindness in keeping the people throughout the challenges that came with 2020, especially the pandemic of COVID-19. Governor Ikpeazu, in a congratulatory message issued to newsmen on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Onyebuchi Ememanka, sent his deep condolences to the families of the people who lost their loved ones to the pandemic and other causes. He further reminded Abians that the pandemic was still very much here with us and was likely to linger for a while, making it extremely imperative for everyone to take issues surrounding their health very seriously. On infrastructure, Governor Ikpeazu assured that the upgrade of roads will remain a key factor in the policy thrust of his administration. “Currently, my administration is working on 62 active sites across the state. We have made huge progress in this respect. We have completed and commissioned the Abiriba – Etitiama Nkporo Road in Ohafia LGA providing for our people there a standard road for the first time ever. We have completed the Aro Umuejie Road which links the Enugu PH Expressway to the Obikabia- Omoba Road which we had also completed,” he said. The Governor expressed deep gladness at the completion of the reconstruction of Osusu Road and Egege – Ebenma Roads in Aba. “The reconstruction of the Ngwa Road, Uratta, Ohanku and Obohia Roads have commenced under our strategic partnership with the World Bank. “This is the first time in about 30 years that any major attempt is being made at doing any meaningful work along this area. This is more than a road project. It includes flood water management and waste management. We are committed to the completion of these projects,” he noted. Governor Ikpeazu restated his administration’s commitment to the completion of all the road projects currently embarked across the State, assuring that in the next one year, there will be massive improvement in the stock of roads and other critical infrastructure for the use of our people. He further assured Abia workers that his administration shall remain committed to their welfare even more in 2021. While the salaries of civil servants under the direct employ of the State Government have remained steady, the Governor assured that the systematic offsetting of the salaries of workers in some of our parastatals which was kicked off in December 2020 will be sustained this year. According to him, heads of these parastatals must ensure that funds made available for this purpose are applied judiciously. Ikpeazu also assured pensioners that the arrears of their pensions will receive the same attention while the payment of their monthly pensions will be sustained in the new year. The Governor informed the people of Abia State that in 2021, the security architecture in the State will be further strengthened to ensure that our people are safe. “The establishment of the Ministry of Homeland Security and the Homeland Security Watch, CPAMS and the Abia Security Control Center are all designed to make our people feel safe to carry out their legitimate businesses with ease,” he added. Governor Ikpeazu assured that his administration will continue to support all security agencies in the State with equipment and operational vehicles to boost their readiness to battle criminals in the state. He also restated his readiness to establish a Garment Factory in Aba to complement the existing Show Factory which had long commenced production of shoes. The Governor expressed gratitude to the management of the Nigeria Railway Corporation for placing a hefty order from the Aba Shoe Factory which has kept them busy throughout the Christmas season.