Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State says that his administration is willing and prepared to support any initiative that will make life better for the people of Abia State, especially in the area of provision of affordable housing for the people. The Governor stated this on Wednesday while receiving in audience, a delegation from the Nigerian Institute for Nigerian Languages Aba. Governor Ikpeazu made it clear that affordable housing remained a critical need of the citizenry and no responsible government will ignore any opportunities for partnership with any individual or corporate organization for this purpose. He assured the leadership of the delegation of his readiness to work with them and ensure that their dream project, the 1000 housing units is achieved, and directed the Managing Director of the Abia State Housing and Property Development Corporation to work closely with them on the project.  The Governor thanked the members of the Society for their decision to come together to seek mutual benefits, recalling his days as a University teacher when he served as Secretary of a similar association at the Enugu State University of Science and Technology, ESUT. Ikpeazu also expressed his thanks to the management of the Nigerian Institute for Nigerian Languages Aba, for making the institution become more relevant in our national life, especially in the area of professionalizing the teaching and study of the indigenous languages. He thanked the Federal Government for its continued support to the institute and for ensuring that the Institute is using its permanent site located along the Opobo -Azumini Road in Obingwa Local Government Area of the State. Earlier, the leader of the delegation and Executive Director of the Nigerian Institute for Nigerian Languages (NINLAN), Aba, Professor Obiajulu Emejulu, told the Governor that they came to see him to seek his kind intervention in the provision of land for the proposed 1000 Housing Units Project of the NINLAN Aba Agro Allied Investment Multipurpose Cooperative Society.  The Society, according to the Professor, is made up of staff of the Institute, and set up to help members cultivate the habit of savings as well as achieve other feats ranging from housing projects, loan facilities and other necessities of life. The Executive Director told Governor Ikpeazu that their Cooperative Society has keyed into the National Housing Program of the Federal Government under the Cooperative Housing Scheme through the Cooperative Mortgage Bank. “One of the pre-conditions which will enable them enjoy the full benefits of the scheme is the provision of land through the State Government. The proposed 1000 Housing Units will have one , two and three bedroom units to be built by the Bank and sold by way of a loan to the members with a repayment plan of between 10-25 years”. He also told the Governor that over 400 of their members have indicated interest in the scheme and that they were open to receive other cooperative societies, especially from the State Civil Service.  “Indigenes of their host community can also be accommodated in the scheme through their cooperative society, Emejulu added. According to the Executive Director, the project will create more opportunities for the community where it will be sited with an avalanche of economic activities and so many other openings. The Executive Director also informed the Governor that the National Institute for Nigerian Languages Aba has become even more poised to play key roles in the promotion of national unity through the teaching and learning of key Nigerian languages. He told the Governor that they now offer programs in up to 9 Nigerian languages. Also speaking, the Managing Director of the Abia State Housing and Property Development Corporation, Arc. Alozie Nwankwo assured the cooperative society that the agency will work closely with them and provide them every necessary technical support to realize the project.