The profile of Service Chiefs appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari has been revealed. Buhari had on Tuesday approved the resignation of the outgoing Service Chiefs. The president commended them, while accepting their immediate resignation and retirement from service. Buhari had applauded the immediate past Service Chiefs for their achievements in ensuring peace in Nigeria. Following their resignation, the president immediately appointed Maj Gen LEO Irabor, CDS, Maj Gen I Attahiru, Army, Rear Adm AZ Gambo, Navy, AVM IO Alao, Air Force. Below is the profile of some of the new Service Chiefs. Major Gen Ibrahim Attahiru Major General Ibrahim Attahiru is the latest Chief of Army Staff. Attahiru who replaced retired Maj. Gen. Tukur Buratai was born on August 10, 1966 and hails from Kaduna State. Prior to his appointment, Attahiru with Force number 8406 was the head of the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army. In May 2017, the new COAS was appointed to lead the war against Boko Haram in the Northeast but was later replaced with General Nicholas Rogers. Attahiru was redeployed by the then Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai after giving him a deadline in July to deliver Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau dead or alive within 40 days which he could not deliver. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao Prior to his appointment as Chief of Air Staff, Amao was the Commandant Armed Forces Resettlement Centre in Lagos State. Amao was born on 14 September 1965 at Enugu but hails from Osogbo Local Government Area of Osun State. The new Chief of Air Staff was enlisted into the Nigerian Air Force, NAF, on January 19, 1984 as a member of the 35 Regular Course of the Nigerian Defence Academy. Amao previously served as Trainee/Squadron Pilot, NAF Unit 99 ACTG Kainji (1993-2004), Instructor Pilot/Squadron Pilot, 301 FTS Kaduna (2004-2007), Air Assistance to Chief of Air Staff, Deputy Defence Adviser, Nigerian High Commission London, Assistant Director of Operation Defence Headquarters, Director of Policy and Plans, Nigerian Air Force. The senior officer has attended several military courses which include: Junior Division Course at Armed Forces Command Staff College (AFCSC) Jaji; Senior Division Course at Defence Services Staff College India; Defence Course at National Defence University China, Aircraft Accident Investigation in Civil Airline at NCAT Zaria and Aircraft Accident Investigation Course at Karachi, Pakistan. The Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral A.Z Gambo Prior to his appointment by Buhari, Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo was the Director of Procurement at the Defence Space Administration. Gambo was born on April 22, 1966 and hails from Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State. The new Chief of Naval Staff got enlisted into the Nigerian Navy on September 24, 1984 as a member of Regular Course 36 and was commissioned Sub-Lieutenant on September 24, 1988. Gambo is an underwater Warfare specialist with a subspecialisation in Intelligence. He also attended several military courses which include, Sub-Technical course and Officers Long course both at NNS QUORRA. He also attended Junior Division 48/89 and Senior Course 26 both at AFCSC Jaji. He also attended the National Defence Course at the South African National Defence College. Chief of Defence Staff, Maj. Gen. Leo Irabor Maj. Gen Leo Irabor is the latest Chief of Defence Staff and a member of the Regular Course 39 of the Nigeria Defence Academy, NDA. Irabor, a trained engineer, was the Commander of Army’s Training and Doctrine Command, TRADOC, with headquarters in Minna, Niger State. The new Chief of Defence Staff, Major General Leo Irabor, was born on October 5, 1965. He hails from Ika South of Delta State. TRADOC is a research-oriented formation in the Nigerian Army charged with doctrinal training and combat development, supervising training centers. He also served as the Chief of Training and Operations (CTOP) Defence Headquarters. Irabor once served as the theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole and headed the MultiNational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) as the Field Commander.