Apostle Paul Okikijesu of the Christ Apostolic Miracle Ministry, has released a set of new prophesies concerning the entire Yoruba land, the South west security outfit, Amotekun, some governors, namely: Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State; Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state; Seyi Makinde of Oyo State; and Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State. The prophecies also contain a warning to the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and the Nigerian Governors’ Forum. Okikijesu said that God sent him to warn Governor Akeredolu to “be wise during this period, starting from January 26, until March 14th, 2021. “Thus saith the Lord: Certain people do not want his government again, while certain people are not pleased with his speeches/statements; and these people are saying that they are not pleased with the administration.” On his message for the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, he said, “Thus says the Lord of hosts: inform all the members of the Governors Forum that misunderstanding will happen among them that can lead to seeking to terminate one another’s soul for the second downfall. “Satan is determined to use that area to cause the downfall of their governments. Satan is bent on using that journey to ruin their administrations, says the Lord God of hosts.” Speaking on Amotekun, he said, “Thus says the Lord of hosts: inform the leader and all the members of Amotekun together with the Children of Oduduwa, including their youths, not to sleep spiritually as from January 14th until April 15th, 2021. All Yoruba land needs supervision and prayer. “Amotekun must be battle ready and seek the fear of I the Lord, because these hosts of hell (the terrorists) want to muddle up their government. “Some combatants want to penetrate their midst in order to muddle up their government. Furthermore, some people are making preparation to engage Amotekun in a fight that can hurt them, and cause misunderstanding among the Amotekun between Januray and March 2021 in a manner that will cause great harm in April 2021. “Thus says the Lord: They should be prayerful and vigilant so that Amotekun will not be labelled with a fearful name. A name that is not what Amotekun stands for.” Furthermore, he said certain people want to muddle up Governor Makinde’s government, “then take the government away from him.” On his message on Sanwo-Olu, Okikijesu said, “Thus says the Lord of hosts: he should appoint guards in all locations around the State. The Governor should try his best to provide security and protection for the State. Lagos States needs protection. Lagos needs protection; the people in charge should provide adequate protection for the State.” Speaking on Governor El-Rufai, Okikijesu said “He should not permit any form of deception or any meaningless thing in his government. “Some people are planning to ruin his government in a manner that will make it impossible for him to progress. It is important for him to be wise during this period.”