Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Thursday issued a strong warning to the North and Islamic groups over threats on the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan Kukah. Joseph Bade Daramola, CAN General Secretary, in a statement on Wednesday, warned them to watch their utterances and actions. 2. The Federal Government has finally decided to go ahead with the January 18, 2021 resumption date for schools nationwide. This was confirmed in a circular on Thursday, after due consultations between the Ministry of Education and others stakeholders in the education sector. 3. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, on Thursday, said COVID-19 was claiming Nigeria’s patriotic leaders. Obasanjo regretted that resourceful citizens, who served the nation in various capacities including the late Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd) had succumbed to the virus. 4. Nollywood actress, Sotonye Green has died of COVID-19. She is the first person to have been confirmed killed by the deadly virus in the movie industry. 5. Yunana Babas, an Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police is dead. Babas, who was in charge of Zone 8, passed away three days after the death of another AIG, Omololu Bishi. 6. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has activated a shortcode – 6232 for reaching the NCDC. Chikwe Ihekweazu, the Director-General, who made this known in a statement on Thursday, said the code, 6232 was introduced as a means for the public to contact NCDC’s Connect Centre and access verified information on COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. 7. Boko Haram terrorists on Wednesday attacked Garin Gada in Yunusri Local Government Area of Yobe State. The insurgents, according to reports, killed two people and looted shops and homes of the villagers. 8. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has said the Third Mainland Bridge would be reopened on February 15. Fashola, who disclosed this on Thursday, during the inspection of construction work on major roads and bridges in Lagos State, that after the Third Mainland Bridge is reopened, work would begin on the Falomo Bridge. 9. Shaka Momoh, the owner of Planet One Hotel in Lagos States is dead. Momoh died of coronavirus complications on Thursday at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). 10. Three persons have been roasted in a fire incident that razed a ground floor building in Kano State. A statement by the Public Relations Officer of the Kano State Fire Service, Saidu Muhammad Ibrahim said the service received a distress call from one Salisu Muhammad of Rumfar Shehu, Rijiyar Zaki, Ungoggo Local Government area, at about 3:18 am.