The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has paraded 53 suspected internet fraudsters on Tuesday. DAILY POST learned that the suspects were arrested in Ibadan, Lagos and Port Harcourt. The anti-graft body arrested no fewer than 13 suspected yahoo boys. EFCC report has it that the arrest of the 13 young men was triggered by intelligence gathering which detailed their alleged involvement in internet fraud and other related offences. The suspects are Adio Taheed, Kayode Adeoye, AbdulAfeez Kehinde, Ogunleye Yemi, Olaniyi Joshua, Bakare Omolayo and Raji Wasiu. Others include Adesuntola Adebayo, Abdulfatai Waliu, Olawale Ibrahim, Ridwan Gbolahan, Olayiwola Olamilekan and Tajudeen Mojeed. The commission confirmed that four cars, laptop computers, phones and other incriminating documents were recovered from them. Also, the Lagos zonal office of the EFCC arrested 22 suspected yahoo boys, including Ayeni Olarewaju, Muyiwa Adetola, Adeolu Damilade, Aminu Kelvin, Oritsetimeyin Abel, Ademola Lekan, Abayomi Qudus, Isaac Chibueze, Ajama Patrick and Nesta Olotu. Others are Balogun Ayo, Mustapha Hassan, Adewumi Adebayo, Musbaudeen Olamilekan, Odaro Edogiawere, Charles Akpene, Joshua Ugwuomore, Ogundare Kayode, Ayeni Isamilola, Kara Uzuegbu, Akindele Samuel and Oladimeji Ashiru. Also, the Port Harcourt Zonal office of the Commission nabbed eight suspects on Tuesday, in Mandela Housing Estate, Rumuokoro and Street 1, Radio Road Estate, Ozuoba, Port Harcourt, Rivers.   The suspects, seven men and one lady, were identified as Charles Mba, Vandross Ebre, Timothy Godspower, Tochukwu Mbonu, Okoroma Robinson, Ruth Allison, Kingsley Obilor and Sampson Ajaka. “Items recovered from them include nine (9) phones, eight (8) Laptops of different brands, one (1) silver-coloured Lexus ES 330 car, One (1) maroon black- coloured Lexus ES 330 car and one (1) white-coloured Benz GLK 350 Sport Utility Vehicle,” it was said. “The suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded,” the EFCC said in a statement on its social handles on Tuesday.