The Commissioner of Police Zamfara State Command, Mr.Abutu Yaro has urged Islamic Clerics in the state to preach peace for adequate security. CP Abutu Yaro disclosed this during a familiarisation visit to the Emir of Bungudu, Alh. Hassan Attahiru at his Palace. The Commissioner noted that the call became imperative considering the fact that people of the state respect the Islamic teachings more than any advocacy, hence the need for the clerics to support the peace process of the state through the village to village preachings to enlighten their communities on the dangers of criminal activities and importance of peace in their Socio-economic development. Mr. Abutu Yaro who spoke to Fulanis in the emirate through an interpreter, DSP Sadiq Umar, said for the communities to enjoy Health Facilities, quality education, water supply among others, they need to embrace peace and encourage their brothers to surrender their weapons. “I am pledging that the police command under my watch would provide adequate security and other logistics to clerics who may want to go to the villages to preach peace” he assured. However, the Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Hon. Abubakar Muhammad Dauran charged security agencies to commence onslaught to recalcitrant bandits as they refused to key into the peace and reconciliation initiative of the State Government. He accused some communities of aiding the bandits as informers and collaborators in executing their plans. Dauran who accused Civilian JTF for fueling banditry in the State said the Civilian JTF known as Yan-Sakai were totally banned. Responding, the Emir of Bungudu, Alh. Hassan Attahiru commended CP Abutu for the visit, added that the CP’s tour to the Emirate and Police Formations in the State was timely and urged security agencies to adopt new strategies in fighting bandits. “I am pledging that the police command under my watch would provide adequate security and other logistics to clerics who may want to go to the villages to preach peace” he assured. However, the Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Hon. Abubakar Muhammad Dauran charged security agencies to commence onslaught to recalcitrant bandits as they refused to key into the peace and reconciliation initiative of the State Government. He accused some communities of aiding the bandits as informers and collaborators in executing their plans. Dauran who accused Civilian JTF of fueling banditry in the State said the ‘Yan-Sakai were totally banned. Responding, the Emir of Bungudu, Alh. Hassan Attahiru commended CP Abutu for the visit, adding that the CP’s tour to the Emirate and Police Formations in the state was timely and urged security agencies to adopt new strategies in fighting bandits.