Zamfara State Governor, Hon. Bello Mohammed Matawalle has condoled Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who are victims of a recent terror attack that sacked six communities and saw the killing of over 35 people by armed bandits. The communities include Dusin Gari, Rayyau, Talli, Majata, Munkuru communities in Kanoma district of Maru Local Government Area of the state. The Governor lamented that the bandits were not operating on their own, stressing that there were prominent personalities behind the unending banditry in the state. He prayed for divine intervention and asked God to expose all the evil-minded people behind the supply of funds and logistics to terrorists. Matawalle assured that his administration would not relent in its efforts to investigate the supply root for the bandits, informing that his cabinet would meet with community leaders to find a lasting solution to attacks in the area. “My administration would ensure that enough food items and essential commodities are constantly supplied to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and ensure their quick return to their various communities” he assured. In his response, the Emir of Perthat, Alhaji Abubakar Mai Gari appealed to the Governor to as a matter of urgency assist the Internally Displaced Persons as most of them have lost hope of living. The monarch noted that the terror attacks have made so many women widows while many children have become orphans, stressing that most of the people killed in the dastard acts were males, the breadwinners of the families they left behind. The Governor also visited Jambako village in Maradun Local Government Area of the state where he also addressed and condoled the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). The Governor had earlier ordered the state commissioner of police, Mr. Abutu Yaro to summon Maradun, Alhaji Garba Tamberi to give an account of the attack on Jambako community under his emirate within three days. The Governor, however, donated the sum of five million Naira to the community on behalf of the state government. It would be recalled that the governor recently warned that the Emir of any community or local government area attacked will be dethroned to serve as a deterrent to others.