Olusegun Bamgbose, National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, CAGG, has demanded the whereabouts of Muhammadu Buhari following among other things, the President’s continued address to Nigerians through recorded speeches. He pointed out that President Buhari had not appeared in any public function most recently and even avoided the invitation by the House of Representatives. Noting that the President is missing in action, Bamgbose said, “I’m sure our President was not abducted like former Governor of Anambra State [because] where there is no information, rumours will certainly thrive.” The lawyer wants Buhari to address Nigerians through live interview and Television appearances instead of recorded speech, noting that Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has also been missing in action. Bamgbose said that Buhari has been conspicuously missing in action and according to him, this is no longer funny. “As a concerned citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and one getting prepared to take over from Buhari, I demand to know from the Presidential Aides and the cabals, the whereabout of Mr. President,” the senior lawyer told DAILY POST. “We cannot continue to be quiet, I believe I have the support of many Nigerians to demand for the movement status of President Buhari,” he said. Continuing, Bamgbose noted that Buhari’s purported visit to Daura, the President’s home town, was shrewd in secrecy as there was “no coverage of him in Daura as we used to have in the past. He has not appeared in any public function most recently.” “He has for a while not appeared in any social function whatsoever. The question begging for urgent answer is, where is President Buhari. Is he sick? “We demand to know how our President is faring. “These are questions that will require answers from his Aides, especially the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed. Nigeria is groping in thick darkness. “Where have they kept our Chief Security Officer? Where is the Nation’s Commander – in – Chief of the Armed Forces? “Even when the 300 students of Government Science Students were abducted, our President never made any public appearances. “What exactly is going on? We want to know the whereabout of our President. To worsen things, even the Vice President, Osinbajo has been mute. “Who then are running the affairs of this country? We have not heard from the President and the Vice President. What sort of precarious situation is this, that we have found ourselves,?” He queried.