Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha and other prominent Nigerians will be among the first people to receive the COVID-19 vaccine on live television to help drive awareness. The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib, revealed this at Thursday’s briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. 2. The Federal Government has warned Nigerians against complacency in containing the COVID-19 pandemic. Minister of State for Health, Olorunnimbe Mamora, who said this on Thursday in Abuja, at the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing, stated that vaccines against the virus might not arrive soon. 3. The Governor of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday, met behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. At the end of the meeting, Sanwo-Olu told State House correspondents that more patients in the state are in need of oxygen, hence the decision of his government to build 10 oxygen tents. 4. Steve Onishola, the coach of Kwara Falcons Basketball Club of Ilorin, is dead. Kwara Basketball Association chairman, Joseph Adeyemo, who confirmed the death, said Onishola died on Thursday, hours after his younger sister, Folake Aremu aka Orisabunmi passed away. 5. Kaduna State Government on Thursday arraigned five persons for alleged attempted adultery and organising a nude party. The defendants include Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesman in Kaduna, Abraham Alberah. 6. Adebayo Salami, a former Senator, is dead. Salami, who represented Osun Central Senatorial District on the Alliance for Democracy (AD) platform at the inception of the fourth republic in 1999, reportedly died in the United States on Thursday. 7. A legal practitioner and rights activist, Esther Uzoma is dead. Uzoma, who of the National Coordinator of Proactive Gender Initiatives (PGI), died after a surgery at a hospital in Abuja, the nation’s capital. 8. The Federal Government has directed the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission to suspend the recently adjusted electricity tariff. The Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, who made the announcement in a statement on Thursday, said a committee has been set up to work on the new electricity tariffs and should be allowed to complete its work before any adjustments. 9. Some staff of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Bayelsa State chapter, have embarked on an indefinite strike over poor allowance and poor working conditions in this COVID-19 regime. Mr. Paul Soroh, who led the angry workers in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Thursday said that while they work under pressure to enable Nigerians get their NIN for onward connection to their SIM cards, the Federal Government have failed to provide necessary tools for them to function effectively. 10. United States President, Donald Trump, has said that he was “outraged by the violence, lawlessness and mayhem” after a group of his supporters stormed the Capitol and forced a halt to a Congressional joint sitting. Trump said demonstrators “defiled the seat of democracy” and added “to those who broke the law, you will pay,” in a video posted on Twitter on Thursday.