The people of Atyap Chiefdom in Zangon Kataf local government area of Kaduna state have reiterated their determination to leave no stone unturned in search for ways to bring about peaceful coexistence and development in the area. Recall that Zangon Kataf has since last year been witnessing series of attacks, resulting to killings and destruction of property of unimaginable magnitude. The President, Atyap Community Development, ACDA, Comrade Dr. Silas Adamu while speaking at an occasion organized in his honour by a committee of friends noted that, “Though this is a noble gesture, it calls for sober reflection, owing to the fact that lives are being lost in Atyapland, as a result of senseless killings, mainly resulting from misunderstandings within brothers which could be resolved through patience and dialogue.” He added, “My heart bleeds whenever news of attacks and counter attacks in our community reaches me. I become troubled, body spirit and soul and become engrossed in deep thinking as to what is the way out of this quagmire.” He noted that, “We need to remind ourselves that first of all, we are all humans, who came out of the loins of one man, Adam, who we all have been born to acknowledge as the first son of God through creation. “We must be mindful of that fact and be further reminded that we are equally tied by bonds of being from the unique race as Africans. We are not just Africans, but Nigerians and further down, citizens of Kaduna State.” President Adamu requested that, “Bearing this is mind, we must embrace each other in genuine love and togetherness to bring forth the desired prosperity in our land.” He said, “such peaceful co-existence would be for our collective good as it would translate to mutual trust, progress and all round prosperity.” He noted that there was the urgent need to rewrite history and make the land of Atyapland enviable, stressing that this could be done through drawing the attention of their people that the time had come for Atyap people to have more than just a passing interest in the political activities surrounding their collective will for progress and development. He assured, “While we will not involve Atyap Community Development Association in the murky waters of party politics, we shall work together with politicians who are saddled with constitutional powers to bring peace, unity and development to our people. “We shall interrogate what their positions have brought to the table of our collective patrimony, be they Atyap, Hausa or Fulani and any other ethnic group in our land.” Politically, he assured that Atyap Chiefdom would mobilise and sensitise their people “to go with only people that were there for them when they needed peace and security, people who wiped their tears when they were hungry; political parties that provided food when they were hungry, a government that provided justice to them when they were emasculated, groups that provided succour to them when they became homeless, even religious organisations that did not only sympathise with them in their hour of need by praying for God’s intervention for them but also empathised with them by practically providing basic needs for them as an injunction of God.” “We shall no longer abandon our people to the ruberics of selfish and and self serving pseudo political and religious bigots but shall encourage them to question the basis of the representation of our people at a every level of human endeavour,” he assured. Adamu believed that the vision and will of their ancestors was what will build a very strong community “where every Atyap, Hausa, Fulani and other ethnic groups in their land shall live peacefully and secure their future, where justice shall reign supreme.” He noted that there was a general desire within those groups to return to peaceful coexistence in Zangon Kataf, adding, “We also discovered a general and unanimous resolution that a return to peace is desirable but that true and genuine peace can only be achieived when those directly involved in the conflict are allowed to talk to themselves first in order to fashion a way out of this conundrum. “We have agreed that we shall meet in the near future to talk to ourselves before we invite other stakeholders and government to inform them of our peace formula which will require the blessings of all the stakeholders and government.”