The Honourable Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Mallam Bello has urged Nigerians to continue to demonstrate principles of oneness and togetherness and fight hard to resist efforts to cause disunity or disharmony in the country. Bello made this known in his New Year message to Nigerians, which was made available to DAILY POST on Friday. According to him, “The year 2020 was without a doubt one of the most challenging years in living memory not only in the FCT but indeed across the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic.” He also commended individuals, corporate organizations, government agencies and non-governmental organizations who, despite the challenging times, provided palliatives and other forms of support to the more vulnerable members of our society. ”The year 2020 was without a doubt one of the most challenging years in living memory not only in the FCT but indeed across the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I, therefore, once again commend and express my appreciation on behalf of the Administration and residents of the Territory to all our health personnel involved in the fight against this dreadful disease. We salute their courage and pray that those who have paid the supreme price in the course of this battle should continue to rest in peace. “I wish to remind Nigerians that the most effective way we can fight the COVID-19 pandemic is to adhere to the established health protocols of facial covering, hand washing and physical distancing. “Following these simple public health instructions will help in controlling the spread of this second wave of COVID-19 which has proven to be more aggressive than the first wave. “I therefore appeal to the general public to please continue to adhere to these health protocols as we step into the New Year. “My sincere appreciation also goes to all individuals, corporate organizations, government agencies and non-governmental organizations who, despite the challenging times provided palliatives and other forms of support to the more vulnerable members of our society. “I also want to urge you all to continue to demonstrate this principle of oneness and togetherness and fight hard to resist efforts to cause disunity or disharmony within your ranks. “We pray for the guidance of the Almighty in 2021 as we face the rigors of nation building. “I hereby once again wish all everyone a peaceful, healthy and prosperous 2021,” he said.