Elders of the Kwara State All Progressives Congress, APC, have described Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq as a victim of blackmail. Declaring their total support for his administration, they said: ” Abdulrazaq has changed the narrative of the state across various sectors.” The elders made the declaration at a crowded press conference held at Kwara Hotels in Ilorin the state capital. Barrister Kunle Suleiman, a spokesman of the elders, said ” they have a historic duty to support Abdulrazaq on account of his impactful leadership of the state, prudence, humility and large-hearted approaches to issues including party politics. They described it as an unfortunate situation where some persons within the party are teaming up with opposition elements to discredit the governor despite his achievements. He said governor Abdulrazaq remains a man of the people and stands tall as a man of honour among the majority of party members, “in spite of the unfair demarketing campaign against his administration by some party chieftains and their co-travellers in the opposition.” Barrister Suleiman said governor Abdulrazaq had demystified the office of the governor with his uncommon humility and redefined the story of the state in many positive ways. The governor, he added, has touched lives in health, education, roads, or water, in ways never seen before. Apparently reacting to criticisms by some party chieftains in the state against the governor, the elders said: “Today, Kwara is a model state on the continent in youths and women inclusion in government.” They alleged that the emergence of various amorphous groups within the party in support of the governor was borne out of open enmity and anti-party conducts of some party chieftains who do not hide their disdain for the governor and government of their party. Elders in attendance at the press conference were, Senator Ahmed Mohammed, Ambassador Nurudeen Muhammed, Senator Suleiman Ajadi Makanjuola, Chief Oke, Sunday Fagbemi, and Ayinla Folorunsho among others.