Islamic human rights body, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has told President Muhammadu Buhari government and the National Peace Committee (NPC) to desist from imposing Bishop Mathew Hasan Kukah on Nigerian Muslims. MURIC declared that Muslims have the right to boycott any committee or event in which the bishop is involved. A statement on Tuesday by its director, Ishaq Akintola, said they have watched in utter consternation as some groups added fuel to the flame in the Kukah controversy. The body lambasted the Nigerian Catholic Mission and Northern Christian groups for arrogantly endorsing “Kukah’s incinerating Christmas statement instead of dousing tension”. “Kukah himself added salt to injury by telling us that he did not know how or where he insulted Muslims. It means he is not ready to show remorse. Kukah will not recognise the dignity of his Muslim neighbor. He still believes that Muslims are there for him to push around and lampoon like school children. “Several Islamic organisations including the Jamaatu Nasr il-Islam (JNI), the Nigerian Islamic Center, Zaria and the Sokoto Muslim Solidarity Forum have demanded Kukah’s resignation from that committee. It must be a huge joke if the Federal Government or the NPC think this matter can be swept under the carpet or that it would soon be overtaken by events,” it said. MURIC noted that successive governments have created a larger than life image for the Christian leader by giving him lofty positions particularly in federal commissions and committees without any objection from Muslims. Akintola accused the cleric of failing to appreciate the grace of Nigerians particularly that of Muslims who have always endorsed such appointments. He noted that instead of a proper appraisal, the bishop uses every opportunity of his public profile to pour invectives on Muslims. Akintola said Nigerian Muslims told the NPC that Kukah was no longer acceptable to them as NPC Secretary “but surprisingly there is dead silence on their part”. MURIC advised the committee to scout for a credible person to replace him. “In case the NPC fails to act, Nigerian Muslims are hereby reminded that it is their Allah-given fundamental human right to boycott (or stage a walkout from) any event in which Bishop Mathew Hasan Kukah is involved either as the chairman, secretary, member, guest or speaker.”, the statement concluded. BREAKING: No harm should befall Kukah - CAN warns Islamic groups, security agencies Buhari: Islamic group attacks Bishop Kukah, makes revelations about Obasanjo Kukah will be crucified if he challenges govt - Cleric, Abubakar Malami