Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has described ex-Military Administrator of Lagos State, Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu as a rare breed for his singular consistency and unwavering commitment to social justice, democracy and federalism in Nigeria. Tinubu lamented that Kanu who so “loved this country and its many people” passed from us on Wednesday in Lagos State at 77. He stated this in a statement signed by his Media Aide, Tunde Rahman. Tinubu said: “I’m deeply saddened by the passing of former military administrator of Lagos and Imo states, Real Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu. “He was my brother and a very courageous partner in the struggle for democracy and enthronement of true federalism in Nigeria. In everything he did, from his work as former administrator of Lagos State to the sacrifices he made to help NADECO during the struggle for the actualization of June 12, Real Admiral Kanu was highly principled. He provided democratic vision and meaningful ideas to advance that historic struggle. “He was a patriot and a progressive. A rare breed in his consistent and unwavering commitment to social justice, democracy, and workable federalism in Nigeria. “Admiral Kanu was a Lagosian, true Nigerian nationalist in the very best sense of that phrase. “After his retirement, he freely gave of himself to bring progress to Lagos State by lending creative ideas as well as the fruits of his ample experience to successive administrations in Lagos including mine from 1999 to 2007. “He demonstrated true belief and interest in the progress and development of the state. “With his immense experience and gentle mien, the admiral offered intelligence and meaningful advice which always proved helpful in solving problems at critical times. “My deepest condolences now go to his family, particularly his wife and children, and all those who loved and respected this extraordinary Lagosian and Nigerian. May God strengthen and comfort them at this moment for only He can help them bear this loss. “I extend my sympathies to Governors Babajide Sanwo-olu and Hope Uzodinma of Lagos and Imo States, the governments and people of the two states which Rear Admiral Kanu served with such distinction and dedication. “This outstanding man and patriot is now with God and may his soul now rest in perfect peace.”