The Kwara State police Command, on Wednesday, paraded two kidnap suspects and four others for various offences. Addressing newsmen at the command headquarters in Ilorin, the state Police Commissioner, Mr Lawal Mohammed Bagega, said the kidnap suspects, Umaru Mohammed Tambayam (29) and Muhammed Tambaya Bell (26) were among the six armed gang who masterminded the kidnap of four Turkish nationals in July 2019, at Gbubgu village in Edu Local Government of the state, but escaped. He said four of the kidnappers were arrested with one AK-47 rifle at the time of the incident, though the victims were rescued alive without payment of ransom. ” The arrested kidnappers mentioned the above named two suspects who escaped as being members of their syndicate. ” Ever since then, the command has been in search for the two fleeing suspects. Actionable intelligence, however indicated that the suspects were planning to carry out another operation and my operatives swooped on them and were arrested,” the police commissioner disclosed. Bagega, said the suspects confessed during investigation that they were members of the kidnap syndicate that abducted the four Turkish citizens. ” They also confessed to have participated in several other kidnap incidents, especially along Enugu/Abakaliki axis of the South East of the country,” the police boss added. He said investigation was still ongoing to arrest other members of the syndicate and recover their operational weapons, while they would soon be charged to court. Two suspected car snatchers also paraded included Sunday Babatunde and Adebisi Olatunde, both of Ibafo, in Ogun state who were in possession of one Toyota Yaris with registration number EPE971 DY and chassis number JTDB023001059823, black colour, suspected to have snatched at gun point from one Adekoya Ayodele of Ejigunagbede, Ogun state between 17/01/2021 and 18/01/2021 at about 0200hrs at Ibafo in Ogun state. The Commissioner said “a team of anti-car theft led by DSP Charles Nwokolo attached to the state CID Ilorin, swung into action and apprehended the suspects at Ipata-Oloje area of Ilorin in the process of disposing the vehicle.” Also, one Abbey Adeyeye (40) was arrested for theft and recovery of a stolen Golf 3 car with registration number PTG 01 XA owned by one Edwin Nwakanude of Gbugbu village near Lafiagi. One other suspect, Akinsola Babatunde aka Mr White of No.16, Achimugu Stree, Flower Garden of Ilorin, was paraded for allegedly being the organiser of strip, naked parties in lounges, club houses, and service apartments among others in Ilorin metropolis and it’s environs. The police chief said ” The immoral and illegal action of Mr White and his accomplices clearly contradicts the Covid-19 protocols and equally promotes crime and criminality.” He said as part of the policing strategy of the state, foot patrol men attached to Oreke division intercepted an Okada rider suspected to be a Fulani along Oreke/Babanla road in Ifelodun Local Government of the state, during which two AK-47 rifles were recovered, while efforts are on to arrest the fleeing suspect. Police deny escape of 19 kidnap, robbery suspects from cell in Calabar Police arrests 4 kidnap suspects, others in Abia Oyo Police parades re-arrested Ibadan serial killer, Sunday Shodipe, other criminals [PHOTOS]