The Government of Abia State has warned residents of the continuous rise in the confirmed cases of COVID-19 as the country battles a second wave. The Secretary to the State Government Barr. Chris Ezem, gave the warning in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday. According to him, government will continue to evolve ways to protect Abians, and our environment with a view to preventing further community transmission. “We urge all Abians to make themselves available for covid-19 test as Government has set up Sample Collection Centres at the various Local Government Areas including Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Aba and Molecular Testing Laboratory at Amachara. Also, all sample collections and tests are free of charge. “As part of the measures to curb the effect of the pandemic in the State, all Abians are required to compulsorily wear their face masks at all times. Going forward, all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), Public Offices, Eateries, Hospitals and Banks are hereby directed to paste on all their entrances “No Face Mask, No Entry” notice/inscription. “This is compulsory and failure to do so will attract sanction. In addition, such MDAs and public offices and places are required as a matter of necessity to provide all Covid-19 Protocols particularly running water and hand sanitizers within their offices. “Government also directs all Local Government Chairmen, Traditional Institutions, Leadership of various Market Unions and Religious bodies, including the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) etc to embark on Advocacy/Sensitization Exercise on Covid-19, and religious worship must be in line with laid down Covid-19 protocols. “ The State work force will still operate with Grade Level 12 and above and those on essential services will continue to work Mondays through Fridays. “It is absolutely expedient that all Abians must take advantage of the ongoing community testing to ascertain their Covid-19 status. “Our Isolation Centres are in operation and all our Medical Protocol Team are in place. “ The State Covid-19 Enforcement Team will immediately begin routine visit to public places to ensure compliance. “ Lastly, Government directs all and sundry to observe the protocol of social distancing, hand washing, use of sanitizers and to take personal responsibility in order to save their families and loved ones,” the statement said.