Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Nigeria’s billionaire, Bolu Akin-Olugbade is dead. The 61-year-old businessman, who was the Aare Onakakanfo of Owu Kingdom, passed away on Wednesday at the Paelon COVID Centre, Ikeja, Lagos. 2. The National Examinations Council (NECO) has released the internal Senior Secondary School Examination (SSCE) results. NECO also derecognised 12 schools for their involvement in mass cheating and cases of malpractice. 3. Former Military Administrator of Imo and Lagos States, Ndubisi Kanu is dead. The retired Rear Admiral, 78, passed away on Wednesday in a hospital after a brief illness. 4. Workers of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) have threatened a total shutdown if the Federal Government fails to address their demands. NIMC workers on Wednesday asked the President Muhammadu Buhari government to see the 20-day window of the suspended industrial action as an advantage to address all their demands, adding that failure to do so; the government will risk another strike by the commission. 5. The Police on Wednesday arraigned Owede Bruno, the owner of Club Victoria in Lagos. He appeared before an Ebute Meta Chief Magistrates’ Court for flouting COVID-19 rules. 6. No fewer than five persons have died in an accident along the Mowe axis of the Lagos-Ibadan highway on Wednesday. The road crash occurred around 2:45 pm at Danliti U-turn, involving a truck marked, APP 397 YA and a Mazda bus registered as EPE 575 XA. 7. The Police in Bauchi State has arrested 22 persons for organising a sex party in Dass, the headquarters of Dass Local Government Area of the state. The State Commissioner of Police, Lawan Tanko Jimeta while parading the suspects, said the arrest of the suspects, who had formed a syndicate, followed an intelligence report received from Dass by the command. 8. The University of Lagos (UNILAG) will resume online classes on January 25, 2021. The revised academic calendar released on Wednesday showed that the first semester of the 2019/2020 academic session will run until April 1, 2021. 9. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has revealed that the number of COVID-19 cases worldwide has surpassed 90 million, with a total of 90,054,813. The health organization in a statement on Wednesday said that globally, there are 90,054,813 confirmed cases with 1,945,610 deaths. 10. The United States House of Representatives has impeached President Trump for incitement of insurrection. The resolution followed the debate on the article of impeachment. Democrats in the House moved the article of impeachment following the invasion of the Capitol hill during the certification of 2020 presidential election on January 6th.