Northern elders have appealed to President Muhamadu Buhari to device a new approach to restore peace in the region considering that the current security situation in the area has grounded educational, economic and sociopolitical activities. The elders who reiterated their call for an urgent sack of service chiefs and a total restructuring of the nation’s security architecture alleged that the region is under siege but was being underreported by the media. The Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development, while analyzing the security situation in the area claimed it would take over 100 years for the region to recover from the destruction, killings and trauma associated with the insecurity unless the situation is brought under total control immediately. A statement by the Coalition’s National Coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni, maintained that it was time to try new hands in the security sector, since according to the elders; the situation in the region was not getting any better. The elders also threatened to mobilize Nigerians from other parts of the country against the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023 if the administration does not end the killings in the Northern region. The coalition, however, applauded the appointment of the former Military Administrator of Lagos State, General Buba Marwa as the Chairman, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, describing it as a right step in the right direction. While stressing that drug abuse is one of the instigators of insecurity in the North, the Northern Elders tasked the new NDLEA boss to be more decisive with drugs peddlers. “The inability of the service chiefs to change the game against terrorists, bandits and kidnappers threatens the existence of the region despite the heavy investment made by the president to ensure restoration of peace. “As we write this to present our plight to the public, there is no school opened to academic activities in the region, except perhaps in Maiduguri metropolis of Borno State. Farmers can’t go to farms anymore especially in the North East, fearing our concerns of severe famine if the situation is not immediately addressed. “Also, markets, buying and selling besides other economic activities have been brought to a total halt as a result of the activities of terrorists, bandits and kidnappers. There is equally no social activities anymore in the region as people preferably stay in their various houses now to avert being prowled on by the adversaries, “the statement said. “Until we change the security architecture, nothing meaningful will be achieved in the war against insecurity,” it claimed. “The current service chiefs have tried so far but it is obvious they are now bereft of new ideas and zeal to change the game against adversaries, hence the need for them to leave the centre stage of security management to younger officers with fresh ideas.