The management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, AAUA, has expressed shock over the fatal accident that occurred in Akungba-Akoko, Akoko South West Local Government Area of Ondo State. The accident claimed scores of people, including some of the University’s students. According to the institution, as a mark of respect for the departed students, the first semester examinations scheduled to start on Monday, January 24, 2021 has been postponed till further notice. DAILY POST had reported that about 12 persons were feared killed when a Dangote truck loaded with bags of cement crushed passersby and rammed into shops opposite the university after it suffered break failure. In a circular signed by the institution’s Acting Registrar, Opeoluwa Akinfemiwa and obtained by DAILY POST, it was disclosed that the main gate of the institution had been closed with alternative provided. It was gathered that the move was part of measures to prevent reoccurrence pending when the incessant accidents will be addressed by the government. The circular read, “The Management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko received with great shock the news of an accident involving a Dangote trailer which occurred in the evening of today Saturday 23rd January, 2021 in which some of our students sadly lost their lives. “Management commiserates with the University community in particular and the Akungba community in general on the sad incident. Management has also informed the Government about this unfortunate incident and we are working with the Government to prevent a recurrence. “Meanwhile, as a temporary measure, Management has directed that the main gate should be closed with immediate effect. Staff and students are therefore requested to make use of the following: Sports Center gate; Guest House gate; Eastern gate and the two small gates (i.e the one leading to the Works & Services Department and the one leading to the Student Union building). “As a mark of respect for our departed students, the examinations scheduled to start on Monday 24th January, 2021 is hereby postponed till further notice. “We appeal that our students should remain calm, as the University mourns those that lost their lives in this unfortunate incident. The University and the Ondo State Government are working round the clock to institute permanent solutions to the problem of incessant road accidents along Ikare-Akungba road. “Once again the University Management commiserates with the University community, the families, victims and people of Akungba Akoko over this unfortunate incident.”