A leader of the Ogun State Chapter of Arewa Political Group, Mahmaud Alhassan has narrated how suspected Fulani herdsmen kidnapped his uncle, Alhaji Oroh Danmaruda, and “killed him despite the payment of N4 million ransom.” DAILY POST learnt that Danmaruda was a contestant for the Ogun State Chairman, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, having obtained the nomination form before his death. It was gathered that he was kidnapped on January 28, 2020, and was reportedly killed by his abductors two days after. According to Alhassan, the Fulani kidnappers had earlier demanded N4 million ransom for the release of his uncle. He told DAILY POST during an exclusive interview in Abeokuta that a man who was kidnapped alongside the deceased told the family that the suspects shot Danmaruda in the head after they received a call that the N4m ransom was ready, saying “they collected the money despite killing my uncle.” Speaking before the Ogun State Judicial Panel of Investigation on Thursday, the spokesman of the Arewa Political Group in Ogun State recalled that the incident was reported at the Ogun police headquarters, Eleweran Abeokuta, that a former leader of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria in Ogun should be arrested as the prime suspect. He told the panel that the suspect, who he identified as Abdulmumin Ibrahim, was released on bail, two days after he was arrested. Alhassan stated that he championed the transfer of the case to the office of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Adeniji Adele, Lagos State. He said the police collected a sum of N300,000 from the family as transportation fare from Adeniji Adele to Olodo in Ayetoro, Yewa North Local Government area of Ogun State. However, the Zamfara-born politician expressed disappointment that the accused former SARS operatives – CSP Ibrahim Yusuf and DSP Ganiu Ajayi, did not invite, arrest or investigate the prime suspect. He appealed to the panel to investigate the matter and help retrieve the N300,000 allegedly paid to the two police officers. The matter has been adjourned till March 4, 2020, for further hearing.