Former Abia State Governor and the Senator representing Abia Central District in the red chamber of the National Assembly, Chief Theodore Orji,has reemphasized the need for all elected public office holders in the country to always provide democratic dividends to the doorsteps of the people. Senator Orji, who spoke while commissioning the renovated Primary Health Centre at Ohokobe Afaraukwu in Umuahia North Local Government Area and supervision of the ongoing reconstruction of Primary Health Centre at Isiala Ngwa South LGA of Abia State. Orji noted the tremendous achievements he recorded then as governor and currently, as a representative of the people, reiterated his avowed commitment in prioritizing the welfare of citizenry.  The Former Governor explained that the commissioning of the infrastructural projects was part of his electoral promises to provide quality health care services to his constituents, urging host communities to maintain the projects and as well, sustain their support to the Peoples Democratic Party-led administration in the state. Speaking on behalf of Ohokobe Afaraukwu Ibeku Community in Umuahia North LGA, Eze Ukaegbu, lauded the developmental strides of Senator Orji since assumption of office. He reassured that the community would maintain its support and cooperation with Senator Orji and the government of Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, saying the duo have excellently performed in giving Abia a facelift. The Monarch thanked the federal lawmaker for exhibiting exemplary leadership which according to him, have addressed the infrastructural deficits in the state.  Meanwhile, at Isiala Ngwa South Local Government area of Abia central Senatorial district during the commissioning, Senator Theodore Ahamefula Orji was conferred with a chieftaincy title of EKWU EME 1 of Etegha na Agbogho Autonomous Community in Isiala Ngwa South LGA, by the people of the Community led by their Traditional Ruler, Eze E.C Amaechi. The Community hinted that the Senator bagged the chieftaincy title in appreciation of the ongoing reconstruction of their Health Centre by the latter. Speaking while being received by the Executive Chairman of Isiala Ngwa South LGA, Comrade Ike Anyataonwu, after the commissioning ceremony, Senator Theodore Orji, thanked the people of Umuetegha community in Isiala Ngwa South for finding him worthy of the honour. He commended them for their massive support during the last general election, assuring to do more in provision of basic needs of the people. Senator Orji also commended Comrade Anyatonwu for the warm reception and charged the Councillors to harmoniously work with the Council boss. On his part, Comrade Ike Anyataonwu, the Executive Chairman of Isiala Ngwa South LGA, thanked Senator Theodore Orji for the developmental gestures, aimed at bettering the lives of the people at the grassroots. 