The 774,000 jobs programme organized by the federal government of Nigeria has kicked off in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. The programme was officially flagged off in Abia State on 5th January 2021 at the Michael Okpara Auditorium Government House Umuahia. Speaking during the kickoff of the programme, the Chairman who was represented by his Deputy, Hon. Promise Uzoma Okoro charged the 632 selected persons among the participants of the programme in Bende to participate fully in the programme and showcase themselves as good ambassadors of Bende Local Government. The Executive Chairman noted that Chief Emmanuel Onwuchekwa-led administration in Bende will continue to support the cleanliness and godliness of the area. He urged them to ensure that the whole villages are kept clean and secured. Onwuchekwa also used the medium to enlightened them on the importance of acquiring their National Identification Number (NIN ) and voters card ahead of any government’s grant that may require any of it so as to avoid emergency situations. He further urged those who doesn’t have NIN to endeavor to enroll themselves as soon as the process is commenced in Bende. Earlier in his speech, the Coordinator of the programme and the Head of Special Public Work in the National Directorate of Employment,(NDE) in Abia State, Mr. Onuoha Uzoma Albert, said that they came for the commencement of the program in Bende LGA and disclosed that 632 participants were selected for programme in the area, while urging the remaining ones to exercise patience. Explaining the conditions of the job, Mr. Onuoha said the program is about cleaning exercise, that will be carried out by the selected persons in their various places that will be hold every Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays of the week. In the case of disabled persons who were selected for the program, the Coordinator, said they have nothing to worry about as they are not mandated to join in carrying out the cleaning exercise. Recall that some weeks ago, the council received from the federal government various equipments and facilities that will be used in carrying out the cleaning exercise.