The Kaduna State Government, on Saturday, confirmed that troops rescued kidnapped women in Chikun local government area of the State. DAILY POST learnt that the troops also captured three bandits This was contained in a statement, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner For Internal Security and Home Affairs issued on Saturday morning. According to him, “Troops under the auspices of Operation Thunder Strike rescued two kidnapped women, close to Gadanin Gwari, Gwagwada District of Chikun local government area.” “According to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, the women were suddenly abducted as they made their way to their farm. The troops on patrol tracked down the criminals and engaged them in a firefight, forcing them to abandon their captives and run for their lives,” he said. Mr. Aruwan further stated that, “After securing the women, the troops pursued the bandits, destroying many bandit camps along the way. The bandits were eventually trapped in Gajina settlement also in Chikun LGA. Three of the kidnappers were apprehended and are now in custody, while the rescued women have returned to their homes. “Furthermore, the troops of Operation Thunder Strike and the newly inducted troops of the Nigerian Army Women Corps have continued aggressive patrols along the Kaduna-Abuja highway. The Patrol was hitch-free, with no incidents recorded as of yesterday, Friday. “In a separate incident, police personnel rescued two persons who were abducted at Kurmin Idon axis of Kaduna-Kachia Road in Kajuru local government area. “The police gave the bandits a hot chase and rescued the two victims, while one other victim was able to escape on his own. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed his satisfaction with the reports, and commended the troops and personnel for their pro-active efforts in rescuing the victims and arresting the three bandits. He tasked them to ensure detailed investigations, and prosecution of the arrested culprits. “Vigorous patrols will continue in the general area,” Mr. Aruwan added.