Oyo State Police command, on Tuesday, appealed to residents of the state who are in custody of illegal arms and ammunition to surrender them with immediate effect. Police Commissioner, Mr. Joe Enwonwu, made this appeal via a statement made available to DAILY POST. Enwonwu in the statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, frowned at the rate of fire arms that are being used by some hoodlums illegally. The police commissioner, while urging those who are in possession of illegal arms to surrender them without wasting more time, appealed to the people of the state not to hesitate to assist the police in bringing such elements to book. Enwonwu in the statement added that perpetrators of jungle justice in the state would not be spared. He said, “It has come to the attention of the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, the rate at which firearms are being owned and used at liberty without license or authorization by some persons as against the executive order of his Excellency the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces and President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR signed on May 22nd, 2019, with effect from June 1st 2019, revoking the right of private individuals’ licenses on fire arms or short guns in Nigeria, calling for submission to the nearest police station across the length and breadth of the nation without the exception of Oyo State. “The CP wishes to urge the good people of Oyo State not to hesitate to assist the Police in bringing such elements to book vis-a-vis the sharing of timely, concise and accurate information about any unauthorized person(s) or group of persons found in possession of firearms. “The Commissioner of Police wishes to inform the law-abiding people of the state that measures have been put in place to ensure that the menace of ‘Jungle Justice’ is nipped in the bud and beyond these, strategic developments have been put in place to ensure the protection of life and order is at its peak, as officers and men have been motivated and encouraged to stand up to the effective discharge of their duties. “The CP wishes to state emphatically that perpetrators will not be spared and will be made to face the full wrath of the law.”