A former Manchester United defender, Gary Neville, has urged the club to sign a new centre-back and a right-winger to win the Premier League title. Neville made the appeal following Man United’s 0-0 draw with Liverpool in the Premier League on Sunday. Man United retained their place at the top of the Premier League table following the result against Jurgen Klopp’s side but left Anfield a little disappointed after wasting the two biggest chances of the game. “I look at this game and think where can you go from being [challengers] to being title winners,” Neville said on The Gary Neville Podcast. “One thing would be Manchester United need to push up the pitch a bit more, to be up in the game a little bit more. “If you look at Liverpool, even with Fabinho and Henderson, they are well up the pitch, they are playing on the halfway line. “You look at Manchester United, they are just playing a little bit deeper, and I think when they come here and play 10 yards further up the pitch – maybe in a couple of seasons or next season when maybe they have got another centre-half in the club who can give them that confidence to do so at that point that’s when you will start to see them doing it. “The other bit is that the right-hand side is emerging… well, not emerging, it is a problem. There’s no doubt. “Juan Mata has played there, James has played there, Pogba has played there, Rashford’s played there, Van de Beek’s played there, Greenwood’s played there. “That is six players that I can think of, and I have probably missed out some that have played in that position, and no-one’s cemented it. “And we know that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer wanted that right-wing position filled in the summer, he didn’t get it, and it’s just posing a little bit of a problem. Because I think if there was a goal-scoring right-winger in that squad today, with Rashford and Martial – and maybe Greenwood could have been the person, but he’s just not quite there yet – that I think would potentially be a difference. “So a centre-back that gets them up the pitch that extra 10 yards and maybe that right-winger. “There is still a question mark over whether the centre-forwards are good enough, but at the moment those are the two positions I would focus most on.” 