The Kaduna State chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Dr. John Joseph Hayab, has called on security agencies in the country to stop making statements that will create and pave ways for evil people to cause harm to the citizens. Making his views known in a statement on Monday, Rev. Hayab said, “We want our security agencies to just go after those planning evil against Nigeria if they have any credible intelligence about their evil intention.” He added, “It has become a weekly or monthly practice for our dear security agencies to make statements that only help to create fear and pave ways for evil people to cause citizens harm.” Rev. Hayab suggested, “lf you truly have security report about anyone or any group trying to instigate violence, just do to them what the law says but coming out to create panic every time is not good for the people who are already living in self pity and have lost hope due to the high level of insecurity in the nation.” He opined that sometimes, these statements are seen as strategies to stop people from expressing their views. “Whenever a strong view has been made and others are saying theirs too, that is when you will hear security alert,” he added. He explained, “As a leader of the Church in Kaduna State, I know my people have been attacked, killed and have their homes and places of worship destroyed or vandalized when there was no quarrel between them and anyone. “And in all these pains, security agencies did not show serious concern or go after the arsonist or criminals.” Rev. Hayab wondered why they (security agencies) should be making statements that would only create panic when no arrest has been made and no good steps is taking to show or teach law breakers lessons. He suggested, “We want our security agencies to just go after those planning evil against Nigeria if they have any credible intelligence about their evil intention. “Coming out always to make statements that will only create more fear in the minds of citizens at a time they are already in fear at home, on the road and everywhere in the country is not a good way to secure us.”