The Osun State Government on Wednesday announced new guidelines for its residents as the coronavirus infection cases spike in the state. This is to enforce non-pharmaceutical safety protocols and curb the spread of the virus in the state, the state government asserted. Hence, no social events should hold forthwith without the approval from the government, the state government announced. After obtaining the approval, the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji in the statement noted that the gathering should not exceed 50 participants. Osun government also ordered civil servants from Level 12 below to work from home with effect from Monday, January 25th, till further notice. The government banned vigils and crusades till further noticed, and ordered the religious organisations to operate at only 30 percent capacity. Oyebamiji said no religious gatherings should exceed two hours per time function. On transportation, Osun Government said, “No motorcycle can carry more than two people, including the rider; No mini-bus (korope) can carry more than five people, including the driver.” The state government in a statement also directed all eateries, restaurants, joints and bars to operate at 50 percent capacity and ensure adequate physical distancing of customers. “No face mask, no entry policy must be enforced in every eatery, restaurant, joints and bar. Operators and attendants must also wear their face mask at all times. “Any hotel, event centre, mall, joint or business that is found flouting the safety directives will be sealed, and will only be reopened upon the payment of a fine of N250,000 “Churches and mosques found flouting the safety directives will be sealed, and will only be reopened upon the payment of a fine of N 50,000 “With immediate effect, the State is increasing its testing capacity across all local government areas. Citizens are enjoined not to be presumptuous in this matter, but to ascertain their status by taking a COVID-19 test. It is free!” “These special phone lines: 0813 508 1156 and +234 8187187678 have been released through which those seeking to hold social events may apply via WhatsApp.” Oyebamiji added.