Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has ordered the police to arrest Sunday Igboho and others causing tension in the state. On Friday, Igboho went to Igangan to restate his ultimatum to Fulanis to leave. Makinde consequently declared that his government would not allow anyone hiding under the guise of protecting Yoruba interests to cause ethnic tension and perpetrate crisis. 2. Non-teaching staff in Nigerian public universities will commence a nationwide strike from February 15, 2021. The workers are opposed to the Federal Government’s handling of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS). They are protesting the sharing formula of the N40billion earned academic allowances and non-payment of arrears of the new minimum wage. 3. A Deputy Commandant General of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Hillary Kelechi Madu, has finally assumed office as the Acting Commandant General. Madu succeeded the former CG, Abdullahi Gana, whose extended tenure of six months expired on Monday, January 18. 4. Four gunmen suspected to be kidnappers were on Friday killed during a heavy gun exchange with soldiers in Ondo State. Four soldiers were equally wounded during the gun duel which happened on the busy Owo/Ifon road in Ose Local Government Area of the State. 5. Three persons have been feared killed in a fresh attack at the ongoing communal crisis between Uko-nteghe Uda and Uko Akpan Enwang communities in Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. Report says of the three, one of them was beheaded. The incident, it was gathered happened in the early hours of Thursday and the situation resulting to many people fleeing their homes. 6. The Supreme Court has again refused the request by Ali Abacha, a brother to the late Head of State, Sani Abacha, to unfreeze accounts traced to him and other family members. The accounts are in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Jersey, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. Justice Chima Nweze, who wrote the panel’s lead judgment, held that in view of the evidence, the earlier decisions of the Federal High Court, Kano, and the Court of Appeal, Kaduna, that the suit was statute barred had been upheld. 7. Some Nigerians detained in Saudi Arabia over expired visas and inability to renew their residency, have appealed for help. In a vide, one of them urged the Nigerian government to intervene, saying they have been in detention for more than 3, 6, 7 months without any action or information on transportation back to Nigeria. 8. Nigeria on Friday recorded 1,483 new cases of COVID-19. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, disclosed this on its Twitter page on Friday. It confirmed that Nigeria now has 118,138 cases of the infection and the country had recorded additional five coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours. This brings the death toll in the country to 1,490. 9. Similarly, three medical doctors and nine nurses have tested positive for coronavirus in Taraba State. The health workers are from the Federal Medical Centre, Jalingo, Taraba state. Acting Head of Clinical Services at the hospital, Dr. Ishaya Kwala, confirmed this while speaking to newsmen in Jalingo after an emergency meeting of the technical committee on COVID-19. 10. Governor Okuwarotimi Akeredolu on Friday gave a nod to the massive recruitment into the state Security Network otherwise known as Amotekun Corps. According to the approval memo, the categories of officers to be recruited were regular officers, intelligence corps as well as volunteers.