In many countries, direct advertisements by healthcare providers are seen as unethical or completely banned. This is understandable as it prevents unhealthy competition and avoids desperation among providers to be the most sought after practice.
On the other hand, it can be very discouraging for doctors in private practice to have a few patients despite having all their qualifications intact and spending a lot of money and time setting up their offices. The options to promote one’s practice can be limited and difficult, no matter how much you put up as an advertising budget. Making Doctors Found Online
One Doctor, a healthcare startup is hoping to change that without breaking any rules. The company, headquartered in Lagos, set up a platform where doctors can list their practices and be found by patients for free. On the web app, users can even sort doctors by their gender, specialty, and even the insurance they accept. This way, doctors can be found by patients in their city without having to advertise. Appointment Bookings
Apart from being found easily by patients, the platform allows doctors to receive appointment bookings directly. To do that, doctors need to visit the website at onedoctor.app, then set up their profile. Once approved, the doctor can then proceed to set availability. It’s based on this schedule that users can choose their preferred time slot. Once this is done, both the doctor and the user get a notification that an appointment was successfully created. A reminder is then sent a day before the appointment to prevent no-shows. Listing is Free
Doctors don’t need to pay to create a profile and get listed. A qualified doctor, once approved, can be found both on the platform and search engines without having to pay any money. Also, the first appointment for each doctor’s account is free. To unlock an unlimited number of appointments, doctors need to join the premium subscription plan. Even if a doctor chooses to remain on the free plan, their profile and practice address will still be visible to potential patients, just that the free plan can accommodate only one appointment. A Solution for the Global Market
One Doctor aims to solve a problem that is present in almost all countries, so it is not limiting itself to Africa or any continent. Doctors from any part of the world can sign up and be found by patients for free. The company hopes that it could positively impact the healthcare systems across countries and make improve access to qualified professionals.