The highest Igbo socio-cultural youth body, Ohanaeze Youth Council, OYC, has taken a position on the controversy trailing the just concluded election of the apex organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Recall that two different elections held consecutively on Saturday and Sunday which produced Chidi Ibeh and George Obiozor as the President Generals of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. But OYC, in a statement signed by its President, Igboayaka O. Igboayaka and issued to newsmen, on Thursday, said that the factional President General, Engr. Chidi Ibe never contested the just concluded election of the apex group. The Igbo youth organization warned Senator Rochas Okorocha representing Imo West Senatorial district of Imo State against destabilizing the Igbo nation with the factional leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Igboayaka noted that right from time, the known candidates, the likes of Dr. Jeo Nwaorgu, Prof. Chidi Osuagwu, Dr. Chris Asoluka and Barr. Goddy Uwazurike declared interest to run for the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo but Mr. Ibe was never in the race for Ohanaeze presidency. “The truth must be revealed, Mr. Chidi Ibe was contracted by Sen. Rochas Okorocha after I had a meeting with Rochas Okorocha, Bar. Uche Okwukwu, former Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo at Orashi Resort Ogboko on Sunday, 3rd January 2021,” Igboayaka revealed. Igboayaka claimed that he noticed the selfish agenda of Senator Okorocha to factionalize Ohanaeze Ndigbo and he declined engaging in further meetings with Okorocha and Okwukwu and that was when the Senatror contracted his ex-commissioner, Mr Ibe to do the hatchet job for him. “The so-called election that pronounced Chidi Ibe President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo was a mere meeting done at Spibat, Rochas Okorocha’s resident in Owerri on Saturday, 9th Jan. 2021,” he said. Ohanaeze youths further debunked Mr. Chidi Ibe’s statement that Professor George Obiozor, President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, asked IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu to stop Biafra agitation. OYC posited, “I have stated previously, Senator Okorocha and Mr. Chidi Ibe want to throw Alaigbo into civil unrest by making callous statements to incite IPOB members against Ndigbo and the new leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo”. The socio-cultural youth group advised the Department of Security Service (DSS) to caution Okorocha and his lackey to cease from making inciting statements capable of disrupting the relative peace in the South East, adding that the duo make hypocritical statements as if they love IPOB members. “Mr. Chidi Ibe who lacks direction wants to use IPOB to launch undue popularity and relevance by seeking to incite IPOB against the new leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo led by Amb. George Obiozor, “the Igbo group revealed. OYC noted that Mr Ibe quoted the Ohanaeze president out of context in order to garner sycophantic sympathy from IPOB members. “The lies and blackmail Mr. Chidi Ibe is peddling is very childish, because I was there during the press conference. Amb. Obiozor’s speech was written, and circulated to everyone, including journalists. Prof. Obiozor was positive about the quest of IPOB,” Ohanaeze youths concluded.