Barely six weeks after the unveil, vivo’s V20 is now widely available in the Nigeria mobile market as a “competition of its own.” In the past weeks, the device has been purchased by hundreds of buyers, and as anticipated, random reviews suggests that the device is outstanding for its superior selfie camera attributes. While the device is still largely available for purchase at various retail outlets nationwide, some potential buyers are still seeking validation before making a final decision. On that note, this blog post will outline some of the top intriguing features of the vivo V20 that you may not be aware about yet. The V20 is belongs to a flagship Lineup Firstly, the vivo V20 is a flagship device and it boasts of a lot of high-tier features that is clearly rare among other devices within its price range Although it isn’t enough to be a flagship device, the V20 is also exceptional because of its fancy design which according to various review, is a breakthrough from the norm. At a corresponding price of ₦159, 000 for a flagship phone, interested users can rate this at the top of their choices. The V20 is a spinoff from vivo’s camera-centric smartphone collection (4K capability) Among many reasons to own a V20 device, being a spinoff of vivo’s camera-centric smartphone collection is one of them. In case you are not aware yet, the V20 device marks the 8th generation of vivo’s V-Series lineup which are quite prominent for their excellent camera attributes. While the latest addition to the family also takes prides in that legacy, it boast of a 44MP eye autofocus selfie camera – one of the unique selling point of the device. Alongside that, the V20 also comes with a triple rear camera setup consisting of 64MP f/1.89 +8MP f/2.2 (Super Wide-Angle/Super Macro/Bokeh) + 2MP f/2.4 (Mono). More notable is the output of the camera which is profoundly top-notch, thanks to the sharpness and smooth texture of the images which is aided by both the selfie and rear camera. Also, the camera comes with a lot of special attributes including an Auto Focus (AF) feature that works wonder as it is capable of locking focus on an object in a split-time frame. Having tried out the selfie camera which attracted majority of the buzz around the device, I can’t but re-affirm that the hype is really worth it. However, if you are looking out for a device with telephoto lens, I’m sorry, but this is not your choice as the V20 strictly relies on the main lens which is quite a good feat too. Still on the camera aspect, the V20 is equipped with an AI technology that allows users to get up to 10X zoom which maintains clarity with long-distance images e.g texts. This takes us further to what the company calls Smart Zoom. The feature allows users to move in closely on an object or perhaps drift away quickly while keeping the object at the central of the frame. Similarly, there is another feature called motion autofocus which helps users to enjoy a stable coverage while on motion. By simply tapping on a person or object (car or bicycle for instance); motion autofocus will track them while maintaining a sharp, continuous focus all through. One more interesting thing you should know about V20 camera output is the emphasis on details. Trust me, you can’t go wrong with the device in this aspect, thanks to the notable blurred-out background in every images, allowing to capture more details on the focused object. Lastly, there is a Super Night mode feature that’s not only built for ‘night’ purpose only; the mode can also play a handy role in areas with improper lightening. 4K video quality Aside from taking images, the V20 is also capable of shooting 4K videos, although it comes with the more widely used 1080P option as well. Where the 1080P video option offers a smooth but less colorful or desaturated video quality, the 4K option on the other hand offers a punchy and well saturated video output. More interestingly, the V20 video, unlike most devices within it range does not loose stabilization while in action. However, using the 4K option takes a toll on the storage space; in comparison, about 3X the size utilized by the ordinary full-HD 1080P mode. AG Glass Technology In case you are wondering, the anti-glare (AG) glass technology is a chemical-based surface treatment applied directly on the surface of a glass to micro asperities which gives the glass surface an anti-glare effect under certain condition like sunlight. Spotted on the V20, the AG glass measures approximately 7.3mm, contributing to the overall appealing sleek design found on the device. Also, this marks the first time that the company will be debuting such technology on the V-series as it has previously made use of the less durable gorilla glass back instead. Face Unlock technology For a device within its price range, one would rarely come across the face technology utilized by the V20 device. Well, that’s not even the highlight, but the fact that the face technology used on the V20 device is very quick in response, and also works perfectly in a dim-light environment. If you ask, I would say the perfection of the face unlock technology can be attributed to the 44MP eye autofocus camera. Delivered with super processor and Android OS On the performance aspect, the V20 device operates on the latest Android 11-based Funtouch 11 built on a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G Octa-core platform (chipset). Paired with an 8GB RAM and up to 256GB storage space, the V20 device exhibits a performance similar to those devices with Snapdragon 730G. For the purpose of this blog post, the above claims implies that the device is capable of running through an entire day when handling normal task and even tedious ones like playing 4K games, or editing. Company-built Funtouch OS 11 Unlike the regular Android devices, the V20 like most other vivo devices comes with the company’s latest default Funtouch OS 11 based on Android 11. The synergy between both OS yielded a minimalist aesthetic that allows users to interact or navigate through the device functions smoothly and seamlessly. This smart addition also introduces a more uniquely designed icon for each applications which differentiate the device user interface from any other ones. Default Ultra Game Mode (UGM) With a super processor built into the device, gaming is one thing you do surely be attracted to, and guess what? The V20 came prepared just for that purpose. The V20 device is equipped with an ultra-game mode that allows you to harness all the potential of your phone’s super hardware. The UGM basically allows you to optimize all required performance for a seamless gaming experience including the CPU/GPU, RAM, Network, Smart performance, and finally, the Thermal management policy. While this option takes a toll on the battery life, you can alternatively turn it off especially when you are not close by to a power source. Regardless, gaming experience on the V20 device is something an interested users should anticipate as it is purposely built. Smart life made easier with Jovi Home Another impressive feature that interested users get to enjoy on the V20 device is the Jovi Home – a default smart assistance that’s fully integrated with quicker access to most used apps. Not just that, the fully integrated hub also serves other purpose like suggesting new smart services, weather forecast, and System updates among others. In other to make this feature very accessible, vivo positioned the smart assistance on the left side of the screen such that swiping right would take you to the integrated hub. Superfast Charging Capability While the V20 device is powered by a 4000mAh battery; something I would consider not so exciting, it is capable of replenishing pretty fast. Practically, a user can power up the V20 device from 0-100 in about 45-minutes; say before you complete your morning routine – bath and breakfast. This amazing feat is, however, attributed to the device’s 33W Flash Charge technology, which is not so profound among other devices within its price range. Modest pricing Available in two major color variant – Sunset Melody, and Midnight jazz, the vivo V20 starts at ₦159,000. Interested buyers can look up e-commerce platforms such as Jumia or perhaps visit any accredited retail outlet around you. For more information about the new device, follow @vivo_nigeria on Instagram, vivo__nigeria on Twitter, and @vivoMobileNigeria on Facebook.