Prophet Joshua Iginla of the Champions Royal Assembly has released some prophecies about the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic, another nationwide protest in 2021. In a series of prophecies he made available to DAILY POST on Sunday, Iginla said he was talking in the realm of the spirit. ”I see our Great country Nigeria that 2023 will be a wonderful year for us.” Speaking on the protest by Nigerian youth, the cleric said that ”the youths will wax stronger. There is still going to be another kind of protest that will come up and it will take another dimension. It will still be betrayed by the same elements.” He, however, said that despite the strength of the youth, they will not be able to produce the next President of the country come 2023 “because it’s not yet time.” The cleric pointed out that the youth will influence every other strategic position during the next general election, “but won’t be able to clinch the number one spot. It will be recycled by the same old faces.” According to him, the old faces will still retain power “but their powers will be watered down till 2027.” He said that some politicians preparing to contest for the 2023 general election “won’t see 2023 at all.” On COVID-19, Iginla warned that the disease is not over yet, adding that “It will take another dimension, be it real, political or scientifically.” He said there will be another national lockdown in 2021 but “this year will be better than last year.” On the country’s economy, the prophet said things will get worse for the masses. He said there will be “a lot of kidnapping that will be on the increase this year. It will be in different forms.” Iginla said that a Governor will lose his seat either to death, impeachment or by sickness and another person will take over between 2021 and 2023, “But I see that his seat was empty and another person taking over his stool.” In the National Assembly, the cleric said he sees a serious shaking at Nigeria’s legislative Chambers between this year and 2023. “I see some being dragged out and being replaced.”