Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has written to the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention over the “torture and ill-treatment” of Omoyele Sowore and four other activists. SERAP urged the Working Group to request President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to withdraw the charges against the detainees and release them. 2. The Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, has insisted that the Federal Government did not increase electricity tariffs. Keyamo said the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) did not consult him or other members of the committee working on the new electricity tariffs regime, before the announcement. 3. An ex-Governor of Ogun State, Olusegun Osoba, has said the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, has the right to contest for the Presidency in 2023. Osoba also claimed there is a gentleman’s agreement in the All Progressives Congress (APC), that the next presidential candidate for the party will come from the South. 4. The All Progressives Congress, APC, has described the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, 16 years government in Nigeria as a disaster and misadventure. APC, while reacting to a statement by the PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, where he claimed that Nigerians want them back in power, insisted that PDP’s 16 years was a misrule. 5. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has revealed that 731 members of Batch B National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) have tested positive for COVID-19. The Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who stated this at a briefing on Tuesday in Abuja, noted that out of the 35,419 in the Batch B, 731 tested positive, compared to the 108 recorded in Batch A. 6. Oyo State Police command, on Tuesday, appealed to residents of the State who are in custody of illegal arms and ammunition to surrender them with immediate effect. Enwonwu in the statement issued by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, frowned at the rate of fire arms that are being used by some hoodlums illegally. 7. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 is making progress on provision of vaccines for Nigerians. The Chairman and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, while giving an update on Tuesday, in Abuja, assured that additional information on vaccine introduction and deployment plans would be made public in due course. 8. Nigerian Singer, Paul Okoye of the defunct Psquare group has tested positive for COVID-19. Paul, who revealed this on Tuesday morning on his Instagram page, warned Nigerians to accept that coronavirus is real and obey all health guidelines. 9. Six persons have been confirmed dead while nine others had various degrees of injuries on Tuesday in a ghastly accident along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Mr Ahmed Umar, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun Command, confirmed the incident in an interview with newsmen in Abeokuta, explained that the accident which occurred around 11:53am, was caused by the driver of the truck marked FZE 376 DI who lost control of his vehicle and hit the bus with registration number ZUR 843 XA from the rear. 10. The Lagos State Police Command has arrested 71 suspects for allegedly violating coronavirus safety protocols in Lekki and Surulere areas of the state by attending and partying in clubs. The command’s Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the clubs raided by the taskforce included Folix Club, Lekki and Bench Bar, Adeniran Ogunsanya, Surulere.