For a continued peaceful coexistence in Atyap Chiefdom in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State, residents have been called upon not to take the laws into their hands. They should in all situation, whatsoever, submit all their grievances or crimes to security agencies, mediation, arbitration or via litigation in court. This was the submission of a communique issued by Atyap and Fulani youth meeting on peaceful coexistence in Atyap Chiefdom following the 2020 incessant attacks on Atyap villages in the area. The meeting co-chaired by Mr. Suleiman Garba Gora, Makama Atyap and Dr. Abdulmalik Mohammed Durunguwa had in attendance Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Commander Sector 7 Operation Safe Haven, Col. David Nwakonobi, Kafanchan Police Area Commander, ACP Danladi Ibrahim, Ms. Priscilla Ankut, Executive Vice Chairman, Kaduna State Peace Commission. The meeting, “called on all residents of Atyap Chiefdom not to take the laws into their hands and in any situation whatsoever, rather submit all grievances or crimes to security agencies, mediation, arbitration or litigation in court.” The meeting unequivocally condemned the killings, maiming, burning of houses and destruction of farmlands and livestock that took place between June and December, 2020 in Atyap Chiefdom. The meeting noted with delight that some culprits had been arrested by the security agencies and that relative peace had returned in the Chiefdom. The meeting called on security agencies to deploy their intelligence network and security technology to fish out the remaining criminals in hiding and nib in the bud any planned criminal activity in the Chiefdom before it is hatched. The participants at the meeting regretted the avoidable loss of lives and property and tendered heartfelt sympathy and condolences to those who lost people and property on behalf of all residents of the Chiefdom while urging that they should wholly and heartily forgive, embrace each other and jointly work to secure lives and property in the Chiefdom. The meeting noted with joy and commendation that no roadblock had been mounted by the youth in the Chiefdom since the Atyap Peace Summit of August, 2020 and urged the youth to continue to be law abiding. The meeting expressed delight that there were Fulanis who did not leave their homes and were not attacked during the crises and urged residents of the Chiefdom to continue to be their neighbors’ keepers irrespective of tribe or religion. The meeting noted that Fulanis who fled their homes during the crises returned to harvest their crops unmolested with the assistance of their Atyap neighbors and urged that such cooperation and collaboration continue. The meeting agreed that, “The destruction of crops by straying cows and the self-help employed to seek redress was identified as a major cause of crisis. Accordingly, the meeting resolved that rearing of cows should not be left in the custody of children alone but together with adults who can control the cows and that farmers should under no circumstance seek self-help in the event of the destruction of their farms by straying cows but should rather report such incidents to appropriate authorities.” It added, “The holding of firearms by some herders and farmers while tending their cows or farms, which are used at the slightest provocation, was identified as a major cause of fear, breach of peace and insecurity among residents in the Chiefdom. To this end, the meeting resolved that no firearms should be held or used during rearing of cows or farming and called on security agencies to arrest and prosecute anybody holding or using firearms during rearing of cows or farming in the Chiefdom. “The meeting noted that as a result of the crises, trust between Atyap and Fulani had deteriorated and there is need to build up trust to enable a peaceful return. To this end, the meeting advised that anybody who desires to return should contact the community leaders in the domain he desires to return to, who shall arrange for his return with his community,” the participants resolved.