The former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido has lashed out at the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying the party has failed Nigerians woefully. Lamido claims the APC failed because it is a two-man political party, manned by persons with the same dearth of ideologies and built around Bola Tinubu and President Muhammadu Buhari. The former governor said the Peoples Democratic Party did better and lasted for those years because it was built by the people and for the people. Lamido who spoke on Sunday in Dutse, Jigawa State after the successful conduct of the PDP state congress said the APC being built around only two people was the reason for the failure of the Buhari led administration in almost all facets. Meanwhile, the PDP state congress which took place on Sunday may have put to rest the lingering crises between the Sule Lamido led faction of the party and that of the Aminu Ibrahim Ringim led group. Recall that the State Congress had exploded in crisis when a faction led by the former candidate of the party Aminu Ibrahim Ringim went to court to challenge the Sule Lamido led faction with a court injunction preventing his faction from continuing with the party’s local government congress. However, a High court sitting in Dutse presided over by Justice Musa Ubale had rescinded its earlier order restricting the Sule Lamido led faction from conducting the local government and state congress elections. In a fresh court order, Justice Musa Ubale struck out the case and ordered the faction of the defendants, Lamido, to go ahead and conduct the party congresses. The court order had said ”the matter dealt with the congress of the 1st defendant to choose or elect its leadership in the ward, local government and state levels in Jigawa which is purely an intra-party dispute and thereafter not Justiciable”, it stated. Lamido while speaking to the media said at the congress maintained that “the PDP is the only party which has that kind of capacity to lead Nigeria and Jigawa State because it is a party that is owned by the people, not a party that is built around one personality. “In APC there are only two persons, It is only Buhari and Tinubu then after Buhari and Tinubu, they have nothing but in PDP wherever you go, you see PDP family, a party which is owned by the people, whoever leads the party will know he has to serve the people. “I have produced so many leaders, Presidents, Governors, Parliamentarians, ministers, commissioners including contractors. “Remove the PDP virtue in Nigerian history there would be no Nigeria because PDP is Nigerian History. “Today, Nigeria like America is going through some turbulence; insecurity, poverty, division, hate and what have you. “We can not have a country where there is no mutual trust because in the absence of mutual trust there is no stability. “If there is no stability there would be no development. “PDP has this advantage over every other party in Nigeria because we believe in one another, we love one another therefore trust is our watchword. “Mutual respect, a firm belief in one another. Only PDP can restore Nigeria. The Jigawa chapter of the PDP is going to be one of the building blocks to restore Nigeria to what it was 8 years ago, when there was security, stability, fuel, power, there was infrastructure development, stability, love, mutual respect, there was everything.” Lamido asked the new executives to convey the party’s appreciation to the working committee and the NEC for taking the pain to go through the court process which he said has been laid to rest. The chairman of the congress electoral Committee, Dr Umar Audu said: “From what we have seen here from yesterday those who contested the elections of the state executives of Jigawa State PDP, were unopposed, that is to say, there was a consensus in the contest and that is the best for democracy. “But in conformity with the laws of the country we have allowed candidates to cast their votes and we inspected each and every ballot box to ensure that each office is contested for and we have ascertained that. Crisis tears Jigawa PDP apart as Gov Badaru expresses readiness to receive more decampees Why I can't pray for success of Buhari govt - Sule Lamido Jigawa PDP Crisis: Caretaker Chairman take emissaries to former Governor for reconciliation