Former APC House of Representatives member, Hon. Eseme Eyiboh has congratulated the three newly appointed commissioners in Gov.Udom Emmanuel’s PDP led government. The new commissioners included Pastor Umo Bassey Eno- Lands & Water Resources, Mrs Idongesit Iboro Etiebet- Education, Uko Essien Udom SAN- Attorney General & Commissioner for Justice. Hon. Eyiboh in a statement in Uyo over the weekend described the appointment of the trio as a response to the call to institute best practices and the right people in governance. The APC Stalwart who enumerated the track record achievements of the appointees in their private capacities urged them to make choices that will enhance the promotion of people’s aspirations. He, however, noted that being an APC member and congratulating the appointees in the PDP government was beyond party politics and urged them to eschew the politics of prejudice. His words, ‘I write to congratulate you on your emergence as a commissioner in the Akwa Ibom State Executive Council. This elevation eloquently testifies to the Governor’s response to the need to institute best practice by the recruitment of the right people into the right places to enhance the derivatives of democratic empowerment in the state. “In congratulating you, I have derobed myself of any partisan garb and now enthroned in good conscience and fairness on account of your industry, innovativeness and reform mindedness. ”By the privilege of your appointment, destiny has formed you to be a part of the history of an emerging Akwa Ibom State; that state of our collective dreams. Regardless of our peculiar challenges, your appointment to the State Executive Council has impacted the threshold of our inalienable socio-economic guarantees. “I implore you to make choices that shall enhance the promotion of our collective urges and aspirations and break the narrow prejudices of the locust of our politics. ”I plead that you bring to bear in this appointment your acclaimed selfless commitment, focus, and capacity which has over time been the hallmark of the success you notched in your private enterprise, to your new appointment.