Oyo State Police Command, on Sunday, confirmed the killing of three people in Ibarapa geo-political zone of the State. It also confirmed the abduction of a medical doctor in the area. DAILY POST gathered that the three people who were killed on Saturday, included a business woman and two 9-year old cousins. Our correspondent gathered that the trio were killed by unknown gunmen at Idere, in Ibarapa Central local government area of the State. DAILY POST also gathered that a medical doctor identified as Dr. Akindele was also abducted at Tapa in Ibarapa North Local government area on Saturday. The state police command has confirmed the two incidents. Public Relations Officer of the state police command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi confirmed the incidents in a statement made available to DAILY POST Sunday night. Fadeyi told DAILY POST that some suspects have been arrested in connection with the killing of the trio. In a statement issued on behalf of the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Joe Enwonwu, Fadeyi stressed further that the abduction of Akindele in his hospital, though not officially reported to the Divisional Police headquarters in Ayete, was an issue of concern. Fadeyi maintained that the CP seized the opportunity to further assure residents of the State that adequate security measures had been placed to prevent any breakdown of law and order in the State. “The attention of the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, psc have been drawn to the two incidents that happened at Idere in Ibarapa central Local Government Area where a business woman and two 9-year old cousins were killed by unknown gunmen and abduction of another man known as Dr. Akindele in Tapa in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State on the 2nd of January, 2021. “The CP wishes to state that in the incident of murder at Idere where three persons were killed, some suspects have been arrested through collaborative efforts of the Police and other local security i.e. Vigilantes, hunters etc and that investigation has commenced and the outcome will be made public in due time. “Furthermore, intensive manhunt is still ongoing around the area to arrest other fleeing suspects (if any) and at the same time massive deployment emplaced to restore confidence to the community in particular and the whole Ibarapa axis in general. “The CP stressed further that the abduction of Dr. Akindele in his hospital though not officially reported to the Divisional Police headquarters in Ayete as stated by the DPO was an issue of concern. “Nonetheless, he reiterates his commitment to rejig the security architecture of the area more than the former year 2020. He stated that, concerted efforts have been put in place to protect lives and property of Ibarapa axis in particular and the whole Oyo State in general. “The CP seizes the opportunity to further assure all and sundry in Oyo State that adequate security measures have been emplaced to professionally prevent any breakdown of law and order in the State. “He stated that the good people of Oyo State are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses without any fear of molestation from any individuals, persons, or groups while decrying the sudden increase in rate of abduction in the State and the need to be more careful in our daily activities to stem the tide. “He concluded that as a new year package, the Command expects collaboration and prompt dissemination of credible information from members of the public as the Police in turn will give quality service delivery,” he said in the statement.