The Emir of Kaura Namoda in Zamfara State, Maj. Sanusi Muhammad Ahmad Asha, rtd, has gone tough on his district heads, warning them against hoarding information and aiding bandits. The monarch disclosed this when he received the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abutu Yaro who was on familiarization tour to 17 emirates of the State, Tuesday. According to him, any District head found wanting will be dethroned and punished according to the law of the land, saying that there would be no sacred cow or untouchable. “My emirate will not tolerate this any more, and would remain focused and committed in monitoring my area. Any District head discovered romancing with the dreaded group of bandits will be sanctioned regardless of his background,” he warned. Asha explained that his Emirate had earlier designed a strategy with a view to complimenting the State government’s peace and reconciliation initiative towards ending any form of crime in the emirate. The monarch pointed out that the issue of security is a collective responsibility, stressing that his emirate will remain resolute and work closely with the security agencies, particularly police and other sister security agencies in order to get rid of banditry and other criminality ravaging the State. Responding, the Zamfara State Commissioner of Police . Abutu Yaro said plans are ongoing by the Command to recruit Fulani youths in the Special Constabulary Scheme to enhance the security of the State. “Zamfara State Police Command under my watch had observed that, Fulanis were not adequately represented in the Special Police Constabularies, hence the need to recruit more among them in the state,” he said. CP Abutu, who described traditional rulers as the best mechanism to ensure proper security, called on them to do more by providing timely reports about the activities of criminals within their respective domains. He further stated that any aggrieved citizen can channel his complaint through the traditional rulers to the police for proper solution.