A police officer has escaped a mob action after being caught as part of a 2-man armed robbery gang in Port Harcourt. One of the suspected armed robbers, who was among two suspects arrested by security guards and residents of Elekahia Housing Estate, was seen with an Identity card of the Nigeria Police. An eyewitness said the suspects were arrested during a robbery operation in the area. They were nabbed by security guards who later called in Police officers from the Elekahia Divisional Police Station in Port Harcourt. “At about 10:30 pm on Saturday a motorcycle with two men on it robbed two ladies of their valuables at gun point and attempted to rob another man who raised an alarm that led to their apprehension,” the source said. When contacted, the Rivers State Police Command confirmed the incident and revealed the identity of the Police Officer, as Sergeant Ibrahim Odege. Spokesman of the Command, SP Nnamdi Omoni in a statement said Sergeant Ibrahim Odege is attached to the Operations Department of the Rivers Police Command, adding that the Sergeant was arrested along with his alleged accomplice, Sampson Inomoghe. Omoni stated that, “Operatives of the Elekahia Division on 16/1/2021 at about 2200Hrs responded to a Distress call at the Elekahia Housing Estate, where two armed robbers who were robbing people and dispossessing them of their valuables were arrested. “The timely arrival of the Police led to the arrest of the two armed robbers who were later identified as Sergeant Ibrahim Odege attached to the Operations Department of the Rivers Police Command and one Sampson Inomoghe ‘m’ 32yrs from Nembe in Bayelsa State but resides at Rumuokwrushi in Obio/Akpor LGA. “The duo were arrested at the scene of crime with the following Exhibits: Three different Handsets belonging to their Victims and one Locally made Bareta Pistol. One of the Victims, Mrs Doris Elechi identified them as those that robbed her of her Tecno Handset, which is one of the Exhibits recovered. “At the Station, the suspects confessed to have carried out the robbery attacks among other revelations. “Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police, CP Joseph G.Mukan has condemned the act and ordered the immediate transfer of Suspects and Exhibits to the State Criminal Investigation Department for Investigation, while appealing to the public to increase their security consciousness and report any suspicious character and movement around them to the Police.” Dynamite explodes in bank premises, injure 2 in Oyo town Security forces apprehend suspected sea pirate, gang members in Rivers Rivers State police parades 21 suspected IPOB members over End SARS violence