The South East National Economic Council (NEC) Implementation Committee is impressed with the level of ongoing projects at the Enyimba Automated Shoe Factory, Aba. The South East National Economic Council (NEC) team Lead, Hon. Mark Okoye, who stated this during a tour at the factory said they came to see the extent production in the factory is going, as well as monitor the execution of the National Economic Council decision in terms of project implementation and ensure that the states are in line with the 71 NEC resolutions.  The delegation was welcomed by the Public Relations Officer of the Enyimba Automated Shoe Factory, Mr. Ikenna Charles George-Esiaba, who took them round the factory to show them the level of work put in place to ensure quality and durable shoes are made. During the tour, they were also shown the various machines in the factory ranging from the Cutting Machines, Sewing Machines, Skiving Machines, Front and Back Labelling Machines, Lasing Machines, Coupling Machines amongst others. The team from the NEC was also taken round the various Departments which includes; Cutting Department, Preparatory Department, Sewing Department, Lasing Department, Coupling Department and lastly the Finishing Department. They were delighted to see some of the industrious 30 persons who were sent to explore the Federal Republic of China to seek advanced knowledge on shoe production courtesy of the Governor Ikpeazu led administration.  The team was elated to know that the last order of our shoes has been delivered to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) we also told them that our factory is capable of producing 5,000 pairs of shoes daily at full capacity and we are much ready to produce for the Military, Paramilitary, Safety boots, School shoes, male and female casual shoes amongst others. They also examined some of the remaining samples of shoes they saw on the show glass. Mr. Okoye, who is also the Anambra state Commissioner for Budget and planning commended, Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu for his achievements in the State, especially in the establishment of the shoe factory, he however assured to give a detailed report back to the office. Also part of the visit was the Executive Secretary, Abia State Planning Commission, Dr. Mrs. Nnenna Chikezie, Permanent Secretary, Government House Umuahia, Mr. Alozie Odoemela, as well as the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Environment, Mr. Iheanyichukwu Uba amongst other government functionaries.  We are focused on Abia Economic plan - Gov Ikpeazu Abia: Gov. Ikpeazu reveals plans for Proposed University of Science and Technology My administration has delivered 200 roads, set to establish Airport - Abia's Ikpeazu