Good morning! Here is today’s summary Nigerian Newspapers 1. South-West Governors have banned all forms of open grazing in the region. The decision was taken on Monday, after they met with the leadership of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), as well as security chiefs. 2. The Nigerian government has extended the phase three ease of COVID-19 lockdown. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, disclosed that the easing of COVID-19 lockdown has been extended by one month. 3. The Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, has imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on crisis-ridden Orlu LGA and neighbouring communities including Nkwerre, Ideato-south, Ideati-north, Njaba and Isu. The Governor took the action following the increasing level of killings in the areas. 4. The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has tactically backed Bola Tinubu for the 2023 presidency. In a statement Monday night by the Director, Ishaq Akintola, MURIC said the South-West has a big opportunity of gaining political power in 2023. 5. The federal government says COVID-19 vaccine is expected to be rolled out from late March or April 2021. Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, who made this known on Monday at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) briefing in Abuja, said the quantity ordered from AVATT of the Africa Union Commission will depend on the country’s capacity to dispense them to avoid wastage. 6. Boss Mustapha, Chairman, Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 said Nigeria has recorded four cases of COVID-19 B117 strain. Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, spoke at the PTF briefing on Monday. 7. The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu has said that it is illegal for vigilante groups to carry arms. The IGP said that the work of the vigilante groups is to gather intelligence and make them available to the police. 8. A female roasted plantain seller simply identified as Iya Oluso, has been killed during a clash that occurred between two rival cult groups in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Report says the two groups caused panic in areas such as Idi-Arere, Kudeti, Ilupeju and its environs where the 60-year old woman was shot. 9. A Kaduna State high court has asked the Kaduna correctional service to release Zeenat, wife of Ibrahim El–Zakzaky, leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), for COVID-19 treatment. In the ruling delivered on Monday, the court asked that Zeenat be moved to a government isolation facility to begin treatment immediately. 10. Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers shot the the Auditor-General of Bauchi State, Abdu Usman Aliyu and abducted Zulkifiru Mohammed, his 25-year-old son. Spokesperson of the Bauchi State Police Command, DSP Ahmed Wakil, who confirmed the incident to newsmen on Sunday evening, said that the Auditor-General’s friend identified as Iliyasu Suleiman, 50, was also abducted by the assailants.