The Kaduna State Government has confirmed that air platforms that cover locations of interest have neutralized bandits in Sabon Madada area of the state. Mr. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, who confirmed the reports, added that suspected bandits were also arrested in Kauru and Soba Local Government Areas According to the statement, “Air platforms conducted armed missions over various locations of interest including Rahama, Sabon Birni, Albasu, Walawa, Doka, Kerawa, Rikau, Galadimawa, Kidandan, Kufai, Shantu, Dogon Dawa, Takama, Damari, Saulawa, Kuduru-Ungwan Yako track, Yadi, Sofa, Muya and adjoining settlements.” Aruwan further added that, “As contained in the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, a suspicious abandoned settlement was observed just north of Sofa. Probing shots were fired and no movements were observed. “Ground troops reported calm situations at Sabon Birni and Dogon Dawa. Other locations were similarly reported quiet. “Further missions were conducted over Kampani Doka, Nachubi, Sabon Madada, Naganda, Farin Ruwa, Kwasakwasa, Sabon Kuyello, Sabon Layilasan, Galadimawa, Kidandan, Dogon Dawa, Damari, Saulawa and adjoining settlements. “Bandits on motorcycles were spotted fleeing into the forest at Sabon Madada, and were duly engaged and neutralized. Other locations covered were quiet. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai received the feedback with gratitude to the troops and crews for their consistency and dedication. “In another development, troops arrested one Stephen Yaro in Kigwanu village, Kauru local government area, for possession of a locally made rifle concealed under his motorcycle seat.” The statement said “Similarly, police personnel arrested two suspected kidnappers, Musa Sabiu and Umar Sule along Ganagira-Soba road in Soba local government area. “The suspects were in possession of a rifle and a machete. “Also, troops apprehended two suspected bandits, Ibrahim Muhammad and Muhammad Badamasi, who were part of a gang that shot at some fishermen at the Kungor village river bank, in Damakasuwa District, Kauru local government area. “All of the suspects are in custody for preliminary investigations. “Governor El-Rufai noted the arrests with satisfaction, and went on to task the security agencies to ensure diligent investigations of the apprehended suspects,” the statement further said.