Some residents of Coca Cola, Leventis, Ajibade, Ajegunle, Oke- Itunu and neighbouring communities within Ibadan North Local government area have deserted their homes and shops. DAILY POST gathered that residents fled the community due to fear of being attacked by hoodlums. Our correspondent gathered on Friday that trouble started in the area when a suspected thief was arrested by the residents on Thursday and thereafter killed by an angry mob from the area DAILY POST, however, gathered that the killing of the suspect attracted hoodlums who stormed the area, shooting and destroying property in the area. The hoodlums allegedly shot two persons in the area around 4pm. On Friday morning, our correspondent observed that the majority of the shops in the area were shut while most of the houses were deserted. A shop owner at Ajibade who spoke with DAILY POST told our correspondent that the hoodlums numbering about three on a commercial motorcycle stormed the area around 4pm and shot two people. The shop owner who spoke with DAILY POST in confidence said that a man and a woman identified as Toyin were shot. He said that the man died as a result of the gunshot while the woman, Toyin died Friday morning. He added that the fear of being attacked made some of the residents flee the area. “It was terrible yesterday. They shot two people. One man and a woman. The man died yesterday, but the woman, her name is Toyin, she died today (Friday).” Public Relations Officer of the state Police command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi when contacted confirmed the incident to DAILY POST on Friday. Fadeyi who said the police have stationed officers in the area to forestall future occurrences confirmed the death of one person. He said, “The information I had is that they set ablaze a man suspected to be a thief Thursday morning. “So, later three men suspected to be cultists went on a repentance attack and shot at the man, one Ojo Jacob, about 58 years old, they shot him and ran away. “Because of this incident, the Police went there to station some policemen and patrol vehicles in the area to forestall further attacks. The police there are presently monitoring the situation to forestall further attacks. The police are also trailing them for possible arrest.”