Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho has vowed that Fulani herdsmen must be chased out of Yoruba land. He was reacting to the order given by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, for his arrest. Igboho had last week given the Fulani residing and doing business in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government of Oyo State a 7-day ultimatum to leave the area. 2. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has said there is no need to vaccinate 20 to 22 million residents of the State against COVID-19. The Governor also disclosed that his administration was engaging some companies in the production of COVID-19 vaccines for residents of the State. 3. Former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, is back to Nigeria. The Jagaban, as fondly called, returned to Lagos on Sunday. 4. The Kaduna State government has approved January 25 as resumption date for tertiary institutions in the State. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Phoebe Yayi, made this known in a statement issued in Kaduna on Sunday. 5. Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, has lampooned some Yoruba leaders for being silent on herdsmen killings in the region. He said the individuals were sitting on the fence because they want to be president in 2023. 6. The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, at the weekend, imposed curfew on Effium community to avert further killings of farmers by unknown gunmen. The bloody clashes between two tribes had, according to investigation, resulted in the killings of over seven persons and hundreds of houses razed. 7. Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, AAUA, has been shut down indefinitely. The indefinite closure of the school was coming about 24 hours after an accident caused by a truck belonging to Dangote Group claimed the lives of some students of the institution. 8. The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, says it is in total support of ridding Ondo State of bandits and criminal elements as contained in the ultimatum handed down on criminal herders by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. The National President of MBF, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, in a statement, said, “As the umbrella organisation representing ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt region, the MBF is in total support of ridding Ondo State of bandits and criminal elements as contained in the ultimatum handed down on criminal herders by the governor. 9. The Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) and foundation member of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Osita Okechukwu, on Sunday, accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of plotting to destroy Nigeria by pushing for the restructuring of the country via unconstitutional means. Okechukwu told the opposition not to lose sight of the fact that the constitution remains the ground norm, no matter how imperfect and therefore must not be violated. 10. Suspected gunmen have invaded Rachael’s Orphanage Home opposite UBE Junior Secondary School in Naharati, Abaji Area Council, Abuja, and abducted seven orphans. Report says theee persons, which consists two housewives, Rukaiyyat Salihu, Suwaiba Momoh and Momoh Jomih, who reside behind the orphanage home were also abducted by the gunmen.