The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, on Sunday, vowed to storm Effium war zone, to assess the level of destruction of properties and killings of innocent citizens of the area. Recall that the deputy governor, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, had visited the worrying Effium community on Saturday and Sunday 24th January 2021, with the purpose of quelling the raging bloody clashes that existed between the two tribes of Effium speaking indigenes and Ezza people. Dr. Igwe had at his visit to the worrying community directed the political office holders of the two tribes to close ranks and ensure speedy resolution of the crisis. The deputy governor had described as unfortunate the breach of peace in the area which has led to wanton destructions and killings in the area. “Stakeholders as a matter of urgency should fish out those behind the act”, warning that “they will henceforth be held responsible for further breakdown of law in the area”. Igwe had directed the chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area, Barr Clement Odaah and member representing , Ohaukwu North, Chief Chinedu Awo to immediately step in and appeal to both sides to sheath their swords in the interest of peace, but it seems, according to investigation that the crisis escalated. It was gathered that the governor David Umahi had as a result of the alleged escalation of bloody clashes, vowed to storm the community on Monday. Umahi made this known in a statement signed and forwarded to DAILY POST by the Secretary to the State Government, SSG, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala. It reads in part: “In furtherance of effort of Ebonyi State to ensure return of peace between Effium and Ezza clan in Effium Community , the Governor of Ebonyi State, His Excellency, Engr . David Nweze Umahi has convened a security Council meeting to hold Monday, 25th January,2021, at Effium Market Square. “His Excellency, the Governor will use the visit to embark on the on the spot assessment of the situation and also address the people on the issues relating to the crisis “Please note that the meeting will help to reconcile the waring clans and restore peace to the area and therefore, should be treated as important,” he stated.