Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. The Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, has again gone into isolation due to contact with victims of COVID-19. Engr Benson Abounu, the State Deputy Governor, who disclosed this on Sunday, said his principal decided to go into isolation following the medical report indicating that a certain Permanent Secretary (whose name he refused to reveal) and his family members tested positive for COVID-19. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari has said religious leaders, musicians and sports personalities should be asked to take the COVID-19 vaccine on national television. Buhari explained that Nigerians will believe in the potency of the vaccine when people like Chief Imams, Bishops, musicians and sports personalities are made to take the vaccine on national television. 3. A new President-General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has emerged. Ambassador George Obiozor was elected after polling the highest votes. 4. The former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido has lashed out at the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying the party has failed Nigerians woefully. Lamido claimed the APC failed because it is a two-man political party, manned by persons with the same dearth of ideologies and built around Bola Tinubu and President Muhammadu Buhari. 5. The Nigerian Army has disclosed that troops of Operation Tura Takaibango in Yobe State neutralized Boko Haram terrorists in Gujba town on Saturday. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brigadier General Benard Onyeuko made the disclosure in a statement issued on Sunday in Damaturu, noting that one soldier also paid the supreme price during the attack. 6. 20 people have been reportedly died while two others sustained serious injuries in a fatal auto accident at Tirwun village, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis along Bauchi-Maiduguri expressway. The accident occurred on Sunday between a Toyota 18-passenger bus in its way to Maiduguri from Jos and a Gulf taxi approaching Bauchi. 7. The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) headquarters in Abuja was razed by fire on Sunday morning. The Service said the fire affected some of the offices in the headquarters. 8. Fire razed shops and valuables at the Kugbo Furniture Market, Asokoro Extension, Abuja. Report said the fire, which started around 6am on Sunday, had lasted over one hour before the men of the Fire Service arrived. 9. Unknown gunmen have killed a Saudi Arabia based oil expert, Ogacheko Atanu, in his Idah residence of Kogi State. It was gathered that the incident happened on Saturday night at about 11 p.m. when the deceased was about retiring to his bed. 10. Fire, Saturday night, razed down Louis Carter Industries Nigeria Limited, a multi-million Naira motorcycle spare parts and allied products manufacturing company factory based in Akaboukwu Uruagu Nnewi, Anambra State. The company owned by foremost Nnewi industrialist and businessman, Chief Louis Onwugbenu is the manufacturer of Louis Carter brand of motorcycles, which is widely used in the Southeastern part of Nigeria and the South-South.