Don Davis, the student of Deeper Life High School, Uyo Campus, who was allegedly assaulted by senior students of the school, has disclosed names of his abusers. DAILY POST had earlier reported his mother’s narrative on how the JSS 1 student of the Deeper Life school was allegedly abused because of bedwetting. She also accused Akwa Ibom State Government officials and some parents of the indicted students of intimidation. In a 45-minutes live Facebook session on Saturday, Davis narrated his experience in the hands of the senior students he simply identified as Ola and Shalom. He disclosed that the senior students allegedly assaulted him by inserting their hands into his anus and bringing out faeces whenever others were sleeping. In the video moderated by his mother, Davis said he could not report to the school authorities because his abusers in senior secondary school one (SSI) threatened to kill him. “They transferred me from JSS1 dormitory to SS1 because I bed-wet. “There were two boys there, Ola and Shalom; they put their hands in my anus, brought out faeces from there. It made me feel somehow, and they used the hands to beat me. “They did this to me by midnight when everybody was sleeping. “They told me not to tell anybody, or they would kill me, so I never reported it. The housemaster didn’t know they did this; he would be asleep. If I had told the vice principal, they would have killed me.” He also revealed that he was beaten up and starved by a teacher in the school identified as Mr Akpan. He claimed Mr Akpan would always beat him with a belt, stick and stones. “Mr Akpan beats me with anything he sees. Mr Akpan beats me because I wet my bed,” Davis said. ” One day that Mr Akpan was beating me, Mr Michael came to ‘bail me’. Mr Michael asked me if Akpan wanted to kill me. Mr Akpan said he didn’t care.” He added that he relied on biscuits and soft drinks from the shop at the hostel to satisfy his hunger because Mr Akpan always asks him to go back to the hostel when it’s time to eat.