Former Senate President Bukola Saraki, on Sunday, expressed concern over the quit notices in Oyo and Ondo States. In a statement on Sunday, Saraki urged President Muhammadu Buhari to take urgent steps to address the situation. He condemned some leaders for maintaining silence despite recent happenings that have increased tension and raised the temperature in the country. The former Kwara Governor said the development in the states are symptomatic of the continued threat to the unity of Nigeria. Noting that such instances are also occur in the South-East and South-South zones, Saraki appealed to all citizens to work for peace and take initiatives that can douse tension. He noted that both the elite and ordinary people have a responsibility to take measures that will reassure the people across board that a united Nigeria will benefit everybody better than a disintegrated country. “The deafening silence by key stakeholders, leaders and others who we think should speak out is worrisome. This silence is a dangerous tell-tale sign that things are wrong. This is not good for our country. We must all speak out and talk about the solution to this twin-problem of insecurity and threat to national unity. “I appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to provide leadership. Mr. President, take measures that will reassure all and sundry that you are working on the problems and that nobody should lose interest in a united, peaceful and progressive Nigeria.” Saraki told Buhari to call all relevant politicians and stakeholders – former heads of states, retired and serving security chiefs, present and former leaders of various arms of government, traditional rulers, experienced youth, among others to discuss how solve security problems. He said now is not the time to talk of APC or PDP but a time for all to work for Nigeria. The former governor also appealed to Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila to provide far-reaching legislative intervention that will help the executive arm in the search for peace, adding that insecurity is getting worse by the day. Saraki called on all politicians who are looking towards 2023 to take over power to start pondering on what type of Nigeria will they have to administer post-2023 if the current situation continues.