Oyo State Police command, on Saturday, said that it has recovered weapons from hoodlums who have been terrorising some innocent citizens in some parts of Ibadan, the State capital. DAILY POST recalls that some hoodlums had in the past few weeks, been terrorising innocent citizens in areas such as Beere, Beyerunka, Born Photo, Idi Arere, Popoyemoja, Molete, Oke Ado, Coca Cola, Ajibade, Ajegunle and other communities in Ibadan. Our correspondent recalls that residents of Coca Cola, Ajibade, Ajegunle, Oke-Itunu and Sango and other communities in Ibadan North Local government area had few days ago deserted their homes due to fear of attacks by hoodlums. Our correspondent also reported that a 60-year old roasted plantain seller was recently killed when two rival cult groups clashed in one of the major flashpoints of civil disturbance in Ibadan. DAILY POST also reports that some hoodlums stormed Odo-Osun, Ita Baale, Aderogba and other areas in Ibadan North East local government area and burnt down some property. During the invasion, our correspondent gathered that a house, few shops and some cars were destroyed in the early hours of Friday. But, the state Police command on Saturday in its reaction, said that it had recovered some weapons from some of the hoodlums. Police said that it had commenced investigation into the matter, adding that efforts were on to arrest the suspects. “No such incident happened and magnitude of houses or cars were burnt at Odo-Osun/Ita bale/Aderogba areas. “Hoodlums from these areas came out at the early hours of 29/01/2021 in their usual manner with dangerous weapons to loot shops and set up bon fire. “A house and about two shops were looted. The swift response of Police patrol teams doused tension and the hoodlums were dislodged. Routine patrols were intensified to forestall further attacks and lootings. “Sequel to this, at about 2015 hrs, the hoodlums from Aderogba area came out again attempted to vandalize and loot shops at Beyeruka/Ogbori Efon areas. “Police patrol teams and that of Amotekun were drafted to the area. During hot chase by the teams, a cut-to-size dane gun was recovered from one of the hoodlums while bon fires set up were put out. “The hoodlums thereafter fled the scene. Constant routine patrols has been intensified in those areas and normally restored. The Police are on the trail of these hoodlums to get them arrested and carry out prosecution accordingly, please,” it said.