Bandits in parts of Kaduna State neutralized in sweeping air missions across four local government areas. Air platforms carried out several armed missions across identified locations spanning Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local government areas of Kaduna state. According to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, the troops covered areas like Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road, Buruku, Ungwar Yako, Udawa, Polewire, Crossing Point, Gagafada, Kugu, Kampani Doka, Gwaska, Goron Dutse and adjoining settlements. Samuel Aruwan, Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, in a statement said the bandits were spotted with cattle about 9km north of Gidan Audu, and were duly neutralized. This was the same situation just southwest of the same location. It explained that more bandits were similarly sighted at Gbakopai and were also neutralized. At the foot of a high ground west of the village, more bandits with cattle were sighted and engaged. According to the statement, armed bandits were sighted at Gagafada attempting to cross from Polewire to Kampanin Doka, and were neutralized by the fighter jet crew. At the Gadani area, the statement explained that the bandits in a convoy of about 12 motorcycles were sighted crossing the rail line west of Gadani station, and were engaged accordingly, adding that bandits with herds of cattle were also engaged further west of the same vicinity. It added that over Kwafe general area, bandits on motorcycles were seen moving out of Kwafe village towards Chikun and were engaged with rounds. It said in another mission covering Giwa local government area, a settlement was sighted at Yadi, active with bandits, and was engaged robustly with many bandits neutralized. Areas like Gwagwada, Sarkin Pawa, Chikun, Kwafe, Sarkin-Pawa to Polewire, Gidan Audu and adjoining settlements were observed to be calm. Other locations such as Kaduna-Abuja highway, Rijana, Polewire, Kateri, Jere and Zuba were calm with no suspicious activities observed. Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the report with satisfaction and thanked the crews and troops for the wide-sweeping mission. It said further patrols would be conducted in these and other areas across the state.