The people of Ibughubu Umuchu Community in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State have cried out over the looming land boundary crisis between the community and the neighbouring Ugwunano Umunze clan. The Anambra Community appealed to the Government of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Willie Obiano to come to their aid, adding that the boundary issue if not resolved could cause wanton destruction of lives and property. The people of Ibughubu Umuchu clan made the appeal in a statement by the Chairman of the Community’s Vigilante Group, Mr. Ralph Njirika and forwarded to DAILY POST on Friday. According to Njirika, “Our lives are in danger over this boundary matter. We will recall that in 1932, the Supreme court had ruled that the relevant government agencies, the National Boundary Commission should demarcate the land for peace and harmony to reign. You can see that this year’s farming season is fast approaching, we want the government to intervene to forestall any attack between our farmers from Ibughubu Umuchu and
Ugwunano Umunze communities that cultivate in the said land. “We don’t want to lose our lives or want anyone to lose his life, we are seeking and appealing to Governor Willie Obiano and the federal government to prevail on the Boundary Commission to come down to the Anambra communities and demarcate the land in issue as pronounced by the highest court of the land. “Tensions and fear are everywhere in both communities, because of the land. Our people who are farming in the land are being molested by the neighbouring Ugwunano Umunze who is claiming ownership of the hectares of the land. The rainy season is on, the government should hear our age-long cry demanding relevant authority to settle the matter amicably. “Ibughubu Umuchu community is known as a peaceful community. We do not want to engage in war. We have maintained that tempo. The National Boundary Commission should intervene in this matter as the farming season is almost around the corner”.