Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Transparency International (TI) on Thursday released its 2020 Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI). The body noted that the CPI revealed that persistent corruption was undermining health care systems and contributing to democratic backsliding amid the COVID-19 pandemic. 2. The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, on Thursday, confirmed that bandits killed four persons across Igabi and Kajuru Local Government Areas of the State. Mr Aruwan in the statement added that, “the bandits stormed the village in dozens, and killed one resident, Harrisu Ibrahim.” 3. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested eight suspected internet fraudsters in Osogbo, Osun State. EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwajuren in a statement on Thursday in Ibadan, said they were nabbed during an early morning raid on their hideout at Ayegbami. 4. Report has it that many of the remaining Chibok girls abducted from the Government Girls Secondary School in Chibok Local Government Area, Borno State, northeast Nigeria have escaped from their abductors and are currently with security operatives. The ‘girls’ are yet to be received by their parents. 5.Former Governor of Borno State and Senator representing Borno central, Kashim Shettima, has described the appointment of the new service chiefs as a well informed and good choices for the country’s challenging security situation. Speaking on Thursday evening Shettima said Buhari apparently took his time to identify competent military commanders who are well grounded with knowledge of the Boko Haram problem after serving in Borno State at different times. 6. UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, on Thursday, announced the suspension of its Envoy on Technology, Fabrizio Drummond, over allegations of harassment and inappropriate behaviours. The suspension of the 57-year-old, who hails from Chile, came six days after his appointment as the UN’s first-ever technology envoy. 7. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the appointment of 17 Permanent Secretaries. In a statement on Thursday, Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola said the appointments took effect immediately. 8. Former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi, has faulted the ultimatums given to Nigerians living in various parts of the country on any problem that may arise. He noted that the action is counterproductive to solution of enormous security challenges every growing society is confronted with. 9. The former governor of Jigawa State , Alhaji Sule Lamido, has said that the unfortunate hatred and attacks on Fulani (herders) in Nigeria was as a result of the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to govern the country well. Lamido, who was a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, while speaking with newsmen in Kano on Thursday, lamented that Nigerians after putting in their trust in President Muhammad Buhari, a Fulani head were disappointed by his administration. 10. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has called for an investigation into the report of an unmarried police officer, Olajide Omolola, who was recently dismissed from service for getting pregnant. Omolola who passed out of the Police Training School on April 24, 2020, was sacked because she got pregnant out of wedlock and a letter with reference number CJ:4161/EKS/IY/Vol.2/236, DTO:181330/01/2021, was sent to an OC in Ekiti State for her to be made to return all police property. The letter also asked that her salary should be stopped immediately.