Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, Tuesday, finally sacked the service chiefs with immediate effect. Buhari has appointed new Service Chiefs: Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Major-General I. Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral A.Z Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; and Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao, Chief of Air Staff. 2. The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has reacted to the resignation of Service Chiefs, stressing that the senior security officers listened to the party’s voice. PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said the Service Chiefs outlived their usefulness, hence their exit. 3. The All Progressives Congress (APC) says the former Nigeria Service Chiefs had remarkable achievements while in office. John Akpan Udoedehe, Secretary of the National Caretaker Committee, hailed the appointment of new top shots by President Muhammadu Buhari. 4. The Arewa Youths Consultative Forum, AYCF, on Tuesday, rubbished the remark by the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore that Fulani herdsmen own all the lands in Nigeria. AYCF National President, Yerima Shettima insisted that nobody owns any land in Nigeria, adding that the government owns all the lands in the country, contrary to the group’s remark. 5. Members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as Shiites, clashed with the Police in Abuja on Tuesday evening. The clash, which occurred near Transcorp Hilton in Abuja, left one person dead and an unspecified number of people injured. 6. The Nigerian government has charged civil servants on grade level 12 and below to work from home, amid the spike in COVID-19 cases. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of Civil Service said civil servants within the cadre should keep working from home till the end of February. 7. President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) to bridge the gap in research and technology as the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic. Buhari asked the agency to play a more pivotal role in equipping the country during emergencies while encouraging research, upgrading local skills, fabrications and international collaborations that will provoke growth in science and technology. 8. The Bauchi State Hisbah has confirmed the arrest of six youths who specialized in organizing sex orgies and fomenting trouble in Dolam village, in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of the state. Malam Aminu Idris, the Permanent Commissioner in-charge of Hisbah and Sharia Implementation, who confirmed this, identified the culprits as Abdurrauf Kabir 25, Dabo Yusuf 26, Abdurrazak Isah 24, Habu Umar 27, Yaron Nuhu-Maikaji 30, and Abdurrashid Shehu 31. 9. A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday ordered a final forfeiture of about N284, 306, 294.04 linked to a former governor of Zamfara, Abdulaziz Yari, to the Federal Government. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of the FHC who gave the final forfeiture order said that Yari could not show how he made the huge sum of monies while or before serving as governor of the state (between May 29, 2011, and May 29, 2019). 10. Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech), on Tuesday, announced the death of the College Director, Academic Planning Unit, Mr. M.A.O Omoighe to complications arising from COVID-19 disease. Following the development, the management at the end of an emergency meeting and based on the report submitted by the Ag. Director, Medical Services, ordered all students to vacate the hotels latest Thursday, January 28, 2021.