Captain Umar Aliyu has blamed Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria for the current security situation in the country. Aliyu, who is a veteran security resource and solutions consultant and an ex-military intelligence officer, said the Miyetti Allah group made the Fulani ethnic nationality the face of cattle breeders and bandits in Nigeria. He narrated that since the beginning of the farmers and herdsmen crisis, the Miyetti Allah has continued to play ethnic politics rather than denounce itself from alleged crimes “They are busy playing local champion and ethnic champion and got themselves stuck in a situation that they have nothing to do with.” Captain Aliyu made this assertion on a program in Osogbo, Frank Talk, monitored by our correspondent. The security expert said over 200 ethnic nationalities in Nigeria, and “they can’t just jump overnight and start pointing fingers at a particular one.” “Nigerians insecurity has gone out of hands. We got it wrong ab initio as back as 2016. We had the same kind of attack when the Agatu were killed in hundreds. The same in Plateau state where newborn babies were smashed unto walls like tomatoes. There is no factually any state they will not give you one gory story of herdsmen turning rough and bandits. “These people are sleeping with our women, killing our children across all the 36 states, not only in Oyo and Ondo alone. And our leaders are there, sleeping. “Of course, Sunday Igboho will take over because they are petrified and need succour. Of course, they will follow him. It is a simple strategic, security situation and strategic intelligence. All we know how to do is to convey stakeholders’ forums and ceremonies. Beyond that, we don’t see anything on the ground. “What would you expect? Those that should stand up and speak for you seem to be the problem. Then suddenly, a reformed renegade packed up. “Unfortunately in this country, When a crime is committed, we start looking at excuses to brown the act rather than focusing on the people. “For example, is in a state where there is a sitting governor, bandits are asking for five million tax every month. It has gotten to the state where they are now collecting tax. The security expert explained that there is a deadly threat that is growing every day. “It is called outrage.” and called on the federal government and state governors to quickly do something about it. “There is a national outrage index that is being fed gradually. It is like a balloon, and one day, a very tiny pin will burst it. 2023 is very far.” he added.