Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Nigerian troops put up a fight late Friday night as Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters stormed an army facility at Marte town, Borno State. The insurgents were said to have overrun the base and the troops “tactically withdrew” for reinforcement. They later returned to neutralize many of the invaders. 2. The Benue State Government has said that bandits attacked and killed a Livestock Guard and shot an Agro Rangers official, a unit in the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Makurdi. Retired Col. Paul Hemba, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, told newsmen on Saturday in Makurdi that the attack took place at Mbalagh Council ward, behind NASME Barracks on Friday evening. 3. At least, one house, four vehicles and two motorcycles were burnt to ashes on Friday as two neighbouring communities in Anambra State engaged each other in hostilities. Both communities, Aguleri and Umuler said to be related had between 1999 and 2001 been involved in a fierce war, which led the then president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo to intervene, to no avail. The communities have been involved in a land dispute. 4. Wife of the embattled Managing Director of the First City Monument Bank, Mrs. Hauwa Adam Nuru, has denied reports that she is seeking a divorce following the lingering paternity scandal. In a statement released on Saturday, Mrs. Nuru, said the report which circulated online was an attempt to further demonize her ‘beloved husband and a loving father.” 5. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has extended the ‘’work-from-home’ order to civil servants in the State. Sanwo-Olu gave the order to curtail the spread of COVID-19. A statement on Twitter said following the resurgence of COVID-19, the State government has ordered workers from Grade Level 14 and below to work from home. 6. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Ali Pantami, has approved the closure of enrollment activities at the National Identity Management Commission, NIMC, headquarters in Abuja. Pantami also approved the reactivation of 20 centers within the FCT to make the process of NIN enrollment much easier from Monday, January 18th 2021. 7. The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has condemned President Muhammadu Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, for saying that only God can resolve the insecurity challenges in the country. PDP’s spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said Adesina’s comment has exposed Buhari’s government as completely helpless and incompetent. 8. Report says operatives of the Delta State Police Command nabbed a suspected Internet fraudster allegedly with the dead body of his girlfriend when he was making an attempt to dump the body of the lady, Blessing Akpovwovwo, in a bush. The suspect is already in detention at the command. 9. President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed a former military administrator of Lagos and Borno states, Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (retd) as Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA. 10. Nigeria on Saturday recorded one thousand five hundred and ninety-eight (1598) COVID-19 cases in the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed the figure in a tweet on Saturday night. Lagos, FCT, Plateau, Rivers, Kaduna and Anambra States top the list with 461, 206, 197, 168, 116, 53 cases respectively.