Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. The Nigerian troops and Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) invaded four Boko Haram strongholds in Borno on Wednesday. The Operation led by Brig. Gen Waidi Shaibu, Commander of 21 Special Armor Brigade, targeted Boko Haram strongholds in Maiyanki, Darussalam, Bula Kurege and Izza, killing many unit commanders and fighters. 2. The Federal Government said cases of undocumented migrants were caused by Nigeria’s porous borders. Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, who raised the concern at a meeting with an European Union delegation led by Ambassador to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ketil Karlsen, said Nigeria was seeking stronger collaboration with relevant stakeholders to check the problem. 3. The Police Command in Ekiti State has debunked the “influx of herdsmen” into the State from Oyo State. Sunday Abutu, Police Public Relations Officer, in a statement on Wednesday, said there had been no sight or report of herders entering Ekiti in large numbers. 4. The Delta State House of Assembly has passed the first reading of bills for the establishment of three new universities. The bills are for the creation of Delta State University of Education, Agbor; Delta State University of Science and Agriculture, Asaba; and Delta State University of Science and Technology, Ozoro. 5. President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the Coronavirus Disease Health Protection 2021. The regulation makes the use of face masks in public places compulsory, as Nigeria battles with the second wave of COVID-19. 6. The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) has mocked former Service Chiefs for always claiming victory against Boko Haram on the pages of newspapers. The body said President Muhammadu Buhari did the right thing by removing them. 7. Benue State Government on Wednesday raised the alarm of massive deployment of cows into the state. The Deputy Governor, Benson Abounu who disclosed this to journalists in Makurdi said that 376 cows have been impounded for flouting the state anti-open grazing law. 8. The Nigerian Army has deployed 100 female soldiers of the 1 Women Special Operation Battalion to secure the Abuja-Kaduna highway. The women soldiers will form part of Operation Thunder Strike. 9. Two policemen in Taraba State have been ambushed and killed by gunmen. The deceased officers who are attached to Karim Lamido local government division of the police force were killed along Jen road. 10. Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom has tested positive for COVID-19. Though the Governor is asymptomatic, he has commenced COVID-19 treatment as prescribed by medical personnel.