The Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin has reacted to the various killing, attacks and kidnapping of innocent citizens in Ibarapa geo-political zone of the State. DAILY POST reports that Ogundoyin, who is from Eruwa in Ibarapa East local government area is speaking for the first time, weeks after the killing of no fewer than four people and kidnap of no fewer than three people in Ibarapa geo-political zone where he hails from. DAILY POST recalls that Ibarapa geo-political zone, which consists of three local government areas in Oyo South District, Ibarapa North, Ibarapa East and Ibarapa Central Local government areas, have witnessed series of attacks, killings and kidnapping by some people suspected to be herdsmen in recent times. Last year, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mr. Fatai Aborode was killed by yet to be identified gunmen. On January 4th, Oyo State Police command confirmed the killing of three people, including owner of a petroleum station in Idere in Ibarapa Central local government area. The police also confirmed the abduction one Dr. Akindele in Aiyete in Ibarapa North Local government area. Another farmer, Monsuru Aderoju was also kidnapped at Oke Agbede in Igangan in Ibarapa zone. He was kidnapped on Monday 4th January, 2021. Three people were reportedly killed when Amotekun operatives engaged some youths in Tapa town in Ibarapa North Local government area. Few days later, about three people were reportedly killed during a clash between Amotekun operatives and some suspected criminals in Aiyete town. DAILY POST learnt that various stakeholders in the zone have questioned the Speaker’s silence on the various security breaches in the zone he represents. Ogundoyin has, however, broken silence by saying that every necessary step is being perfected to address insecurity in the zone. The Speaker, who said it was time for every son and daughter of the zone to come together for a synergy of plans and activities, noted that this became imperative in order to collectively free Ibarapaland from the grip and shackles of criminally minded persons. Ogundoyin in a statement made available to DAILY POST Monday evening added that security of lives and property remained the priority of the present government in the State. He said “Security and welfare of citizens is the primary responsibility of Government. My meetings with different stakeholders and security Chiefs in the last few weeks on the spate of kidnappings, armed robberies, assassination and other crimes in Ibarapaland have revealed the need for a synergy of plans. Normally security plans and strategies are not made public in crisis situation like this. “However, we will work in tandem with the stakeholders and the security heads to ensure implementation of our strategies. This is why all stakeholders are expected to attend the summit so that we can further fine tune ways of securing our land and exposing the evil doers who are all out to shed our blood and dispossess us of our hard-earned money and properties. “I have always been championing the course of my people, even our farmers and this is evident in the anti-open hearing and grazing law which the house under my leadership worked assiduously to pass. “I must say that the present administration in Oyo State is committed to promoting security and as part of the Government of the day I will never toy with the issue of insecurity in my zone, Ibarapaland. However, we must not allow the situation to degenerate into full blown tribal or ethnic feud. “We must avoid turning our land to a war zone. Everything possible must be done to ensure that our land does not become a battle field or a war zone. Nobody prays for war in our land and this is why we have to come to a round table so as to agree on how best to approach this issue. The debilitating effects of war and conflict are better imagined than experienced. Ibarapaland is a land of peace and must not be turned to a theatre of war.”