Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Zazzau Emirate of Kaduna State has lost two princes – Iyan Zazzau, Bashir Aminu and Talban Zazzau, Abubakar Pate. The duo died just over three months after the former Emir of Zazzau, Shehu Idris, joined his ancestors. Report says COVID-19 complications claimed Aminu who aspired to replaced Idris, while heart attack took Pate. The princes died within 24 hours. 2. The Lagos State government on Friday said about 30, 221 confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been recorded in the state. Prof. Akin Abayomi, the State Commissioner for Health disclosed that 570 new COVID-19 infections were confirmed in the state on December 30, 2020, increasing the state’s tally to 30,221. 3. Napoli and Nigerian striker, Victor Osimhen, has tested positive for COVID-19. Osimhen returned a positive test on Friday, having been away for the yuletide break. Napoli disclosed this in a tweet via its Twitter account on Friday evening. 4. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has threatened to embark on industrial action in states that are yet to implement the new minimum wage and those owing workers salaries. This was contained in its New Year message signed by its president, Ayuba Wabba. Wabba noted that up till now, some states have refused to pay the new national minimum wage. 5. A Ghana-based pastor, Prophet Nigel Gaisie has revealed that Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo will become president in 2021. Gaisie, who is the founder of the Prophetic Hill Chapel Prophet made the prediction during his crossover service on Thursda. 6. One Thousand and Seventy-four, 1074, new cases of COVID-19 infections have been recorded in Nigeria. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, announced the figure on Friday night in a tweet. NCDC said Lagos and Kaduna States recorded 642 and 92 cases respectively, while Rivers State followed with 78 cases. Nigeria now has a total of 88,587 confirmed cases and 1,294 deaths. 7. Senior Pastor of Awaiting The Second Coming of Christ Ministry, Adewale Giwa, has lambasted Nigerians asking ex-Lagos Governor, Bola Tinubu, to contest for presidency in 2023. The cleric advised them to rather allow President Muhammadu Buhari to run again. 8. Rev. William Okoye, General Overseer of the All Christians Fellowship Mission (ACFM) has said that 2021 may not be better if Nigerians do not turn to God. He said this in his New Year message on Friday in Abuja. The cleric stressed that people need to start doing things right and be more sincere. 9. The All Progressives Congress (APC) governors have promised to put in place programmes to bring to an end coronavirus, insecurity, crime, and corruption in 2021. They, however, advised Nigerians to resist attempts by the opposition to politicize insecurity and economic issues. Chairman of the APC Governors Forum and Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, addressed citizens in a statement on Friday. 10. Daniel Olukoya, the founder and General Overseer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, MFM, has released his prophecies for the year 2021. Olukoya released the 34 prophecies themed 2021, the ‘Year of Restoration and Revival’, during the crossover service of his church. Olukoya said there would be great distress that only God can solve, adding that 2021 would be a year of strange rebellion and conspiracy.