The Chidi Ibeh-led faction of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has asked a High Court sitting in Bwari Abuja to restrain Professor George Obiozor who was elected at Owerri by the Nnia Nwodo-led ohanaeze from parading himself as the President General or be sent to jail. Recall that two different elections which held consecutively on Saturday and Sunday produced Chidi Ibeh and George Obiozor as the President Generals of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. However, in a Motion On Notice No FCT/HC/BIU/M/14/21 brought against Professor Obiozor and the incorporated trustees of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and made available to DAILY POST on Saturday, the applicants sought for an order restraining Professor George Obiozor and his privies or any other parading himself pending the determination of the substantive suit. Similarly, in an originating summons, Mike Ibeh-led faction is asking for the interpretations of article 10,11,14 and 21 of constitution of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, brought pursuant to order 2 Rules 1, 3 and 4 of the federal high court of the federal capital territory (Civil Procedure) Rules 2018 and section 6(6B) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The matter comes up on Thursday, 21st January, 2021. Meanwhile, the Spokesman of the new leadership of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo led by Professor George Obiozor, has revealed that the mandate handed over to them is to produce a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction in 2023. Ogbonna called on all parties who lost during the just concluded Ohanaeze Ndigbo election to cooperate in order to achieve the group’s objective. The Ohanaeze spokesman in a statement on Saturday, said that they were optimistic about achieving the mandate. He added that the Igbo should give the new President General, Prof. George Obiozor a chance, calling on those who think Obiozor is a stooge in the hands of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Hope Uzodinma to give him a chance. According to Ogbonna, “The only aim is to convince Nigerians to consider Igbo for 2023 because we have been tasked to carry and portray the awareness and consciousness of the Igbo. Fortunately, the consciousness is to produce Igbo president. “There is no need to delay or coming up with a new mandate. It was an election and some people lost, it will take time for them to come around but they will when they see our achievement”.