The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) in Ogun State, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, has denied collecting money from chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2019 election. Isiaka, a three-time governorship candidate in Ogun State came third in the 2019 election, which was won by Governor Dapo Abiodun of the APC. In the build-up to the election, it was gathered that there were efforts made that Isiaka and Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) could join forces so as to give Ogun West a better chance of producing a governor for the first time since 1976. However, Isiaka was said to have refused to work with Akinlade, who was the anointed candidate of the former Governor, Ibikunle Amosun. After the election, indigenes of Ogun West opined that Isiaka must have collected money from APC to play a ‘spoiler role’, which they believed aided the defeat of Akinlade with less than 20,000 votes. The speculation became more pronounced after the Imeko-born politician visited Abiodun to congratulate him immediately after the election. Also, a statement credited to Abiodun that Isiaka was instrumental to his victory and the defection of the ADC candidate to the APC were reasons some believe the two candidates formed a coalition before the election. Asked while speaking on Sweet FM, Abeokuta on Wednesday, Isiaka, who is now an appointee of Abiodun and member of the APC, confirmed that people have accused him of being paid by Bola Tinubu, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Abiodun himself. According to him, those spreading the rumour are people who think money is everything, people who didn’t know what happened and those who deliberately want to spoil the “good name” God has given him, saying “whoever knows the truth but lies, I leave them to God and they will suffer for it very soon.” He spoke further that, “They said I collected money from Chief Bola Ahmed Tinubu, but I am saying it today that I, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka have never benefited one Naira from Tinubu, either directly or through anybody. “Some said I collected money from Governor Abiodun for the election. I only spoke with Abiodun once before the election, until we met after the election. I know someone who told Abiodun that Isiaka would not sell himself to anybody. This was because he (Abiodun) was afraid when he learnt that some people wanted to give me money to get my support. But the person, who is now a top government functionary told him that the Gboyega he knew would not receive money from anybody. “It was also rumoured that I was given money by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. “I want to use this opportunity to tell people that if they have any evidence that I collected money from any of Tinubu, Osinbajo and Abiodun or if you think they sent anybody to me, come out and talk,” he said. Isiaka, who appeared to be unmindful of the fact that he was on a live radio programme, became emotional as he said, “May God inflict upon me all punishments suitable for a liar if I, Gboyega, the son of Adijat Isiaka has ever lied about this issue. “But to those lying about this – many of them are in the know, they are people who we wined and dined together with, those who know the truth about this issue, but because they have defected to another (political) camp, they started spreading lies against me here and there, may their parents’ eyes (be filled with tears over them,” he emphasized.