The Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG, has called on all Northern communities in the south to come back home safely before considering the next move. The spokesman of CNG, Suleiman Abdul-Azeez, in a statement
linked the warning to herdsmen in the south-west to a grand design to destabilize Nigeria and in particular bring the North to its knees. The group warned that the alleged violence will be repaid coin for coin. It alleged that the enemies of the North have worked to ensure that the region remains backward, divided, weak, confused and bewildered by myriads of challenges and problems. The statement added, “We certainly don’t consider it an isolated incident but linked to a grand design to destabilize Nigeria and in particular bring the North to its knees by targeting a major component of its population, the Fulani and their livestock assets.” “Today everyone can see a clear pattern drawn from the strategies employed to achieve these results; namely the diminishing of the Northern viability and in particular, bringing the Hausa/Fulani population down by direct annihilation or political and economic incapacitation.” The group claimed it was unfortunate that the conspiracy is perpetrated in connivance with leaders from the North and accommodated by the cowardice of those that present themselves as northern political leaders. It noted that it was a situation that feeds on the negligence and the lack of neutrality and fairness of the federal authorities. The statement noted that Akeredolu and other Southern leaders are only playing the script for a wider clandestine plot that has its roots and pattern in history. “We wonder how the Presidency and the National Assembly would have reacted, were the North to make such against other tribes and people that are non-indigenous but live and flourish in the North and actually carry out the threat,” the statement observed. “No matter through which lenses we look, therefore, we only see in this fast-phased agenda a manifestation of a system that tends to deploy a warped application of the law solely for the protection of a certain category of citizens and endangering others. “This manifestation of gross inequity is also one that portends the danger of even more grave conflicts,” the statement explained.