Ariston, the leading and most international brand of Ariston Thermo Group – one of the worldwide leaders in the thermal comfort industry, and Juventus, the world renowned Italian football club based in Turin join forces in China, signing a regional partnership from January 2021. Both Ariston and Juventus share a common mindset: pursuing demanding challenges, seeking great results and success with determination, perseverance and teamwork, and leveraging on their own champions. “Challenges Deserve Champions”, the adv claim of the partnership, summarize well this attitude that both companies share. Challenge is a value deeply rooted in the culture of both Ariston and Juventus. Ariston utmost aspiration is Comfort Always On, thanks to its products, its solutions, its pre- and post-sales support. Likewise, Juventus always fight to achieve great results. Champions mean people: to face new and demanding challenges, both Ariston and Juventus need to have great teams, with the right skills, passion, enthusiasm and attitude – striving to top levels of performance. Paolo Merloni, Chairman of Ariston Thermo, commented: “I am delighted we are joining forces with Juventus. Ariston and Juventus share the common aspiration to succeeding, to never let go, to deliver, to create great teams! Teaming up with Juventus in China reaffirms our commitment to the Chinese market, a commitment we began 35 years ago with the aspiration to be one China’s leading brands in the thermal comfort sector. I am thrilled to announce this partnership today, rooted in Italian excellence but with global vision and reach”. Federico Palomba, Managing Director of Juventus APAC added, “We are proud to welcome Ariston to the Juventus’ partners family. The two brands share an immense synergy of true Italian heritage as well as innovation. Our collaboration covers China, a very dynamic territory which plays a vital role for both brands. There’s no doubt the partnership will create numerous sparks in this thriving market along the upcoming seasons.” As in a real football team, where the differences of each player are essential to win the games, Ariston and Juventus play together to win the great challenge of the Chinese market. Ariston and Juventus till the end. Boiler plate Ariston Ariston is the leading and most international brand in the Ariston Thermo Group. Introduced in Fabriano, Italy, in 1960, Ariston is now the global expert of the heating and water heating sectors. Ariston brings comfort to the homes of millions of families in the world every day, providing excellent quality products, characterized by advanced performance, everlasting quality and iconic Italian style. Thanks to these features, Ariston takes up the challenge to bring comfort to everyone, even where it seems hard or impossible to find it. Boiler Plate Juventus Founded in 1897, Juventus is a listed professional football club which, thanks to its more than century-long history, has become one of the most representative and popular team at a national and international level. Juventus is the most successful Italian team and one of the most decorated in European football. In 1985 was the first ever club to win all the available international trophies. All club’s records have been achieved under the ownership of the Agnelli’s family, a record itself as, with 95 and counting years, it is the longest active ownership of a professional sport entities in the world. Juventus can also count on an undisputed global reach with 111 million fans in Europe and 440 million followers worldwide including more than 100 million followers on various digital channels. Among the players that wore or that are currently wearing the iconic black and white striped jersey there are some of the greatest players of football history like the Italians Boniperti, Del Piero, Pirlo and Buffon and the international stars like Platini, Baggio, Zidane, Nedved (current vice chairman), Ibrahimovic, Pogba, Dybala and Cristiano Ronaldo. The club’s mission is to be a sport entertainment company committed to achieving success on the pitch and to enrich people’s life by providing them with superior and defining experiences. The club is listed in the Italian Stock Exchange.