2020 was a challenging year due to the COVID-19 pandemic that affected businesses worldwide. Nigerians were not left out, as many lost jobs and businesses within months. However, in support of the fight against coronavirus in Nigeria, TECNO donated medical supplies to help the government curb the spread of the virus. Throughout the year, the brand took a bold step to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians by creating life-changing activities that consistently rewarded customers amidst the global crisis. From discounted sales, gift items, to mouthwatering cash prizes, TECNO left no stone unturned as it sought to make a great difference to transform lives. Here are highlights of the major ways TECNO made a difference in the lives of Nigerians in 2020 TECNO sponsored a wedding reception of one of its customers It is widely acknowledged that the wedding reception is one of the essential parts of a wedding celebration. Think about the cake, food, décor, music, halls and a thousand more things that go into throwing the best wedding bash. However, for Tobi and Patrick who won a wedding reception to the tune of N1.5million courtesy of TECNO last year, it will forever remain a moment to cherish in their lives for a very long time. TECNO gave out N1million to support talented Nigerians Through its annual Spark Talent Hunt Initiative that took place online in the heat of the Pandemic, TECNO once again transformed lives by rewarding five talented Nigerians with N1million and some gift items to cushion the effect of the coronavirus in Nigeria. The Spark Talent Hunt is a program designed to showcase young and talented Nigerians-helping them to reach the limelight. It is an annual event and the 2020 edition was fantastic to say the least TECNO also gave away a series of smartphones and gift items ranging from Air conditioners, refrigerators to washing machines in TECNO Mega Promo. Furthermore, the second quarter of 2020 saw the partnership between TECNO and its brand ambassador, Wizkid, giving out over ten smartphones to fans. The month of November was another giveaway extravaganza where the brand discounted various premium TECNO devices with discounts ranging from 50% to 100%. TECNO rewarded 20 customers with N20million Finally, TECNO crowned the year with its Blue Santa Xmas reward. 20 Lucky Nigerian families won a whopping N1million Naira each for buying a TECNO phone of their choice. The winners were picked via a raffle draw that was broadcasted live on the brand’s Facebook page. Hosted by the beautiful Folu Storms and Beverly Osu, ten winners were announced in the first draw on the 21st of December 2020, while ten more winners were picked on the 7th of January 2021. The brand also fulfilled many of their online fans’ wishes by rewarding them with a special box containing a TECNO phone of their choice. Seven fans were rewarded with a special box containing a TECNO to celebrate the TECNO Blue Santa Xmas. For all winners of TECNO’s numerous challenges, 2020 will remain a year to be remembered as they were made instant millionaires just by buying a TECNO smartphone or engaging in an online challenge. TECNO is not just a smartphone brand known for its affordable yet dependable phones, but also for transforming lives through its many life-changing activities. With all of these activities, the brand maintains its essence of gratitude and giving back to the community. That’s why to TECNO, every season is a time to connect, reward, and celebrate with their fans and loyal customers.
https://www.tecno-mobile.com/ng/home/#/ Watch Video of #TECNOBlueXmas Live Draw:
https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=869030760523383  TECNO Blue Santa Xmas: N20m, special gift packages up for grabs Win fridge, washing machine, other gifts in TECNO Mega Promo TECNO Black Friday Sales: Win air conditioner, fridge, 100 percent discounts