As part of the activities marking this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, on Friday, presented two brand new four-bedroom bungalows, each with boy’s quarters to the Nigerian Army and the Police as official residence of the Heads of the Army and Police formations in the Obingwa area of Abia State. Performing the function at Umuobiakwa, Obingwa LGA, Governor Ikpeazu stated that his administration places top premium on the provision of security as a key enabler for development in the State. According to the Governor, the huge investments made by his administration in supporting security agencies in the State were deliberate steps aimed at raising the morale of the officers and optimizing their operational efficiency.  “The provision of decent accommodation”, the Governor noted, “is a key factor in ensuring that our security men are to carry out their legitimate responsibilities effectively and especially when such accommodations are located within their areas of operation”. The Governor added that “we do not have to wait till our soldiers and police officers die before honoring the great work they do in keeping us safe.” He made it clear that his administration will continue to provide support to security agencies. According to the Governor, the two houses shall serve as official residences of the Commander of the Army Squad at Ohanze and the Divisional Police Officer in charge of the Eastern Ngwa Police Division at Umuobiakwa.  He noted that the two security formations play very critical roles in ensuring the security of lives and properties of the people of Obingwa and its environs, and as such were truly deserving of the gestures. The Governor noted in particular that the Eastern Ngwa Police Divisional headquarters has been at Umuobiakwa for close to three and a half decades with no official residence for the DPO who most times comes to work from outside the area. He challenged the Security Chiefs to make adequate use of the buildings, reminding them that they have a responsibility to protect and manage it well for their use and for their successors going forward. Responding, the Brigade Commander of the 14 Brigade of the Nigerian Army Ohafia, Brigadier General SB Kumapayi, conveyed the gratitude of the Chief of Army Staff to the Governor for the wonderful show of support for the operations of the Army in the area.  He noted that the Governor has constantly supported the Army in their work across the state and stated that this latest support will ginger the officers into greater action. He assured the Governor that the officers will redouble their efforts and ensure that peace, security and tranquility continues to reign in the State and warned criminals to steer clear of the State as the officers and men of the Army are combat ready. Also speaking, the State Commissioner of Police, CP Janet Agbede reechoed the words of the Army Brigade Commander and thanked the Governor on behalf of the Inspector General of Police for his consistent support to the Police in the State. He assured the Governor that the official residence will be well taken care of. 