Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Federal Government has published the passport numbers of 100 travelers, who failed to undergo the mandatory COVID-19 test after returning to Nigeria. Their details were published by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Saturday. It said the restrictions started from January 1, 2021 and would last till June 30, 2021. 2. The Chief of Protocol to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, Tosin Ogunbodede has lost his life in a fatal road accident. Ogunbodede, a close aide of the governor was said to have died in an accident that occurred on Saturday night along Ilesha highway. The accident also claimed the life of his driver. 3. Kaduna State Government has confirmed the killing of a cleric in Igabi, and a community leader in Jema’a LGA of the state. Confirming the incidents on Saturday, Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, Mr. Samuel Aruwan said, the security agents informed the State Government that armed bandits invaded Kawaran Rafi village in Igabi local government and killed one Danleeman Isah, the Chief Imam of the village. Similarly, security agencies reported the murder of the Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Mr Yohanna Abu, by a gang of kidnappers. 4. At least, seven farmers were said to have been killed and many others injured by armed bandits in Mashegu Local Government Council of Niger State. It was gathered taht the incident occurred on Thursday morning. Report claims the farmers were killed at a farm in Babban Rami while trying to convey their farm produce home. Eyewitness account stated that the armed bandits, stormed the farm and opened fire indiscriminately on the farmers, killing seven and leaving several others injuries. 5. Boko Haram fighters have abducted a staff of the United Nations (UN) along Damaturu-Maiduguri road in Borno State. Held captive is Abubakar Garba Idris, aka Alooma, a Senior Protection Assistant with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The terrorists ambushed vehicles conveying commuters near Matari village between Minok to Jakana highway. 6. The All Progressives Congress, APC, guber candidate during the 2019 election in Enugu State, Senator Ayogu Eze, on Saturday, hinted that two more governors from the Southeast were on their way to the party. Ayogu spoke at the Enugu State APC Secretariat. He was also optimistic that the APC would form the next government in Enugu State. 7. The Deputy National President of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Chika Onuegbu, is dead. Report claims that the former Chairman, Rivers State Chapter of TUC and National Industrial Relations Officer of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), died after a brief illness. Sources said he complained of headache early Saturday and was rushed to the hospital where he gave up the ghost. 8. A 16-year-old girl has accused the Ogun State Commissioner for Environment, Abiodun Abudu-Balogun of sexual harassment. The teenager, who identified herself as Melojuekun Barakat Mayowa, spoke in a viral video on Saturday. Mayowa, an indigene of Ogun Waterside Local Government, narrated how the Commissioner plotted with another teacher to take her to his house where she was sexually harassed. But the Commissioner has since denied the allegation. 9. A former presidential candidate in the last general elections, Kingsley Moghalu has condemned the reported arrest of Omoyele Sowore. Moghalu asked the government to release Sowore, adding that engaging in protest is his right as a Nigerian. 10. The Federal Government of Nigeria has given new conditions for telecommunication service subscribers to replace damaged, misplaced, lost or stolen SIM cards. A joint statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Ikechukwu Adinde; and Head, Corporate Communication, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Kayode Adegoke on Friday, said subscribers must present their National Identification Numbers (NIN) for their SIM cards to be replaced.