Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers 1. Boko Haram elements from the ISWAP faction, on Friday engaged the Nigerian military in a four-hour battle to take control of Dikwa Local Government Area in Borno State, northeast Nigeria. Reports say the gun battle, which started at about 6:00pm, lasted till about 9:30pm with heavy casualty on the side of the insurgents, a member of the civilian joint task force fighting alongside the Nigerian military said. 2. COVID-19 infections in Nigeria have continued to surge as the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) recorded 1114 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 128,674. The health agency stated that the 1114 new infections were recorded in 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the last 24 hours. 3. President Muhammadu Buhari has reportedly fired Lai Yahaya, his Senior Special Assistant on Planning and Strategy. He worked in the Office of the Chief of Staff. The lawyer guided the presidency on electric power initiatives. Yahaya was accused of leaking internal State House information to an online newspaper. 4. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has reiterated that he has no hand in the land dispute between Ugondo community of Makurdi and Gwer East Local Government Areas and the Nigerian Air Force. The Governor in a statement on Friday stressed that he has not at any time taken land belonging to the people of Ugondo and handed it to Nigerian Air Force. 5. The Appeal Court at the Hague in the Netherlands has ordered Royal Dutch Shell to pay commensurate compensation to victims of two oil polluted communities in the Niger-Delta, in 2004 and 2008, polluting several fishing communities in area. But the international court on Friday, ordered Shell to clean up the polluted communities and restore the livelihoods of the affected victims. 6. President Muhammadu Buhari has sought the Senates’s confirmation for the appointment of the Service Chiefs The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Matters (Senate), Sen. Babajide Omoworare, who made this known in a statement on Friday said that the letter, addressed to the President of the Senate, was dated Jan. 27 2021. 8. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed has commended President Muhammadu Buhari over the appointment of new Service Chiefs. Mohammed said Buhari made the best choices in the appointment of the new Service Chiefs. 9. The Federal Government announced that the Apapa Port railway, which is an extension of the Lagos Ibadan rail has been completed. This was announced by the Special Assistant to President Buhari on Digital and New Media, Tolu Ogunlesi on Friday evening. 10. President Muhammadu Buhari has departed Abuja for Daura, Katsina State, his home town, to participate in the national membership registration and revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Report says that the president left Abuja after performing the weekly Juma’at prayer at the Aso Rock Mosque.