The apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has commended the immediate past President General of the group, Chief Nnia Nwodo on his monumental achievements in office, describing him as a selfless Igbo Leader whose records would remain evergreen in the annals of the history. Professor George Obiozor, the new President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo flanked by the Secretary-General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay and other national officers, made the commendation when they visited Nwodo during the week. Ohanaeze Ndigbo expressed gratitude to Nwodo for conducting a free and credible election that led to the emergence of the new national officers of the socio-cultural group. DAILY POST recalls that the tenure of Chief Nnia Nwodo-led Ohanaeze Ndigbo elapsed on the 10th of January, 2021 leading to an election that produced Professor Obiozor as the new President General of the socio-cultural group. In the same vein, the new leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has commended a former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu for his support on the emergence of present members of the National Executive Committee of the body. The Ohanaeze National Officers visited Senator Ike Ekweremadu in his Enugu residence, according to a release forwarded to DAILY POST on Wednesday by the Secretary-General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay. Speaking during the visit, the President General of the Igbo highest socio-cultural body, Professor George Obiozor said they visited the federal lawmaker in appreciation of his support towards their election as the 10th substantive Executive Members of the apex Igbo organization. Responding, Senator Ekweremadu harped on the need for all hands to be on deck in addressing the teething challenges facing Igbo nation. He called on Ndi Igbo to close ranks as well as come collectively to ensure every nook and cranny felt the impact of democracy. The ex-Deputy Senate President reiterated his support for Ohanaeze Ndigbo and expressed confidence in the new leadership of the Igbo body towards confronting the myriad of challenges facing the South East and other Igbo speaking states. Ekweremadu charged the newly elected members of the National Executive Committee of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to galvanize and chart away forward for the interest of Igbo nation.