Hollywood is mourning the death of screen icon, Cicely Tyson. Tyson who starred in blockbuster movies during her acting career was confirmed dead on Thursday evening. Viola Davis, Oprah Winfrey, Tyler Perry, Rihanna and other Hollywood celebrities expressed sadness and condolences over Cicely’s death. They shared touching messages about the late actress and how her trailblazing career paved the way for so many Black women in the entertainment industry. Viola Davis on her Twitter page, said her heart was broken by the news, describing Tyson as everything to her. Her post read: “I am devastated. My heart is just broken. I loved you so much!! “You were everything to me! Cicely made me feel loved and seen and valued in a world where there is still a cloak of invisibility for us dark chocolate girls. “You gave me permission to dream because it was only in my dreams that I could see the possibilities in myself.” Oprah Winfrey in her condolence message said the roles played by Cicely reflected her values, which she never compromised. According to her, the late screen icon “used her career to illuminate the humanity of Black people.” On the other hand, Hollywood producer, Tyler Perry expressed sadness over Tyson’s death. “This one brought me to my knees, Cicely was the grandmother I never had and the wisdom tree that I could always sit under to fill my cup,” wrote the screenwriter. “My heart breaks in one beat, while celebrating her life in the next. To think that she lived for 96 years and I got to be a part of the last 16 brings me great joy.” Here are other messages by celebrities in the entertainment industry; Rihanna “A true legend, Rest In Peace Cicely Tyson.” Zendaya “ This one hurts, today we honor and celebrate the life of one of the greatest to ever do it,” the Euphoria star wrote on Instagram with a vintage portrait of Cicely Tyson. Halle Berry “ You were a true trail blazer who always walked with grace and dignity. May your light shine on us forever.” Gabrielle Union added: “We have lost a visionary, a leader, a lover, an author, an ICON, and one of the most talented actresses the world has ever seen.” According to Union, Cicely Tyson lived a life, a career worth celebrating forevermore.