Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on Sunday, condemned the call for his repatriation to face his trial in Nigeria. Kanu described the call for his repatriation by Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND) as laughable and an attempted blackmail. The IPOB leader, in a statement by the group’s spokesman, Emma Powerful said the group was created by the Department of State Services, DSS, to blackmail him. According to Powerful: “The use of fake and non-existent groups and associations by agents of the Nigerian Government in a laughable attempt to blackmail our Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, is confirmation that the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) is the greatest nightmare of the failed government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It’s an acknowledgement that IPOB has roundly defeated the failed Fulani controlled Nigerian government in the battle of ideas. “We find amusing that a purported statement was circulated and credited to another DSS manufactured non-existent group they named Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND) all in an effort to give the erroneous impression that a handful of Efulefus are against the IPOB led effort to restore Biafra. A ghost group that only exist in the deranged mind of DSS propaganda unit operatives, in which it was reported the said group petitioned the UK and Israeli governments requesting the repatriation of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi. How utterly ridiculous! “Why DSS has chosen to continue to disgrace itself by creating these fake groups is beyond human comprehension. Such a weak and tactless strategy will not distract us. If indeed such a group exists, why can’t they conduct a live press briefing to convince the people of Biafra they are real by showing us their faces. “This same ineffective strategy has been tried in the past when they created their fake new- IPOB, IPOD, RENPOB, RENIPOB, SEXIPOB and other non-existent groups using fake Igbo names as signatories. They failed then, they will also fail again this time. “Our response to such lame script has not changed. If the so-called CSEPNND is real and identifiable, let them show us their faces, give us their contact address so we can take them seriously. If the self-acclaimed leaders of CSEPNND – the imaginary Professor Madumere Chika, and Mazi Anayo Uchemba, are not robots but truly Igbo sons as they claimed, let them mention their communities and kinsmen. “Our Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is from Isiama Afaraukwu in Ibeku Umuahia North, Abia State. He is not a faceless figure. So, if any DSS creation like CSEPNND leader wants to join issues with him, he should first prove his existence before eliciting IPOB’s attention, otherwise let such faceless group remain amorphous and circulate only in the realm of imagination. “We can say without equivocation that there is no Igbo professor that goes by the name Madumere Chika, and there is also no Igbo professional association known as CSEPNND. This is purely a DSS fictitious creation meant to deceive the gullible and undiscerning. We challenge them to disclose their address and location for enquiries and confirmation if indeed they are not fake. “If Kanu were a fugitive and a lone ranger as purportedly claimed by this ghost group, why the frenzy over his activities? If Kanu has no followership why lose sleep over him? If Kanu were a lunatic that only operates in the internet why catch cold over him? “Instead of generating ideas on how to deal with terrorists about to over run the country, the DSS and other security agencies are busy dissipating energy on IPOB that is never their enemy. We are only after the restoration of Biafra and do not in any way pose any threat to anybody except those benefitting from the oppression and subjugation of our people. “It’s high time the DSS left Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB alone and think of better ways to justify their salaries. It’s too late to stop the Biafra project. The night is far spent and the day is almost here!”