The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has clarified what it described as the unfounded fears of mass disconnection of telephone subscribers. In a statement to DAILY POST on Wednesday signed by its Director, Public Affairs, Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, the commission said that its attention has been drawn to numerous publications in the media space regarding the matter of mass disconnection as a result of the ongoing linkage of SIM Registration Records with the National Identity Number (NIN). NCC said it is, therefore, necessary for it to issue this clarification in order to allay the fears of subscribers and the general public. “Most of these publications are based on the erroneous assumption that for every network or SIM connection, there is one unique human subscriber. “However, with the advent of social media and App-driven digital environment, network subscription went beyond human subscribers to include machines like PoS, Routers, Wi-Fi devices, electricity meters, CCTV, tracking devices etc. “A recent survey conducted in Nigeria has shown that on average, there are now approximately 4 to 5 SIMs to every human subscriber. This explains the basis of allowing the linkage of up to 7 SIMs to 1 unique NIN in the recently launched Federal Government Portal. “Thus, if there are 43 million Nigerians with NINs, this could account for about 172 million SIMs already linked to NINs. It is very important to emphasize that the current exercise of linking NIN to SIM(s) is for the common good of all Nigerians, as it has far reaching benefits. “Apart from enhancing our general safety, this will help in such vital exercises like National Budgeting, Policy Planning, Social Intervention programs and many more. “The Honourable Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, has assured that the Government will continue to review the exercise in the light of experiences to ensure its smooth implementation. “We call on all our media partners, publishers and reporters to always endeavour to seek clarification from the Commission before going to the press, especially on sensitive issues.”