The General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God RCCCG Pastor EA Adeboye had lambasted government witches and Christian Association of Nigeria CAN who conspired to cancel the 2020 Crossover Night Services. Speaking during a sermon at Ebute Meta RCCG on Sunday, Pastor Adeboye blamed CAN and Covid-19 officials for the crossover night service cancellation. According to Pastor Adeboye “The authorities in the government and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) said the cross over services should be held at different times. Some said we should close by 10 pm while others said we should close by 11pm. I said we should agree and close in our homes because it is funny to me to cross over by 10 pm on December 31. That means we are crossing over to 2020, God forbid. So, rather than cross over by 10 pm or 11 pm, I said we would stay in our houses and cross over at 12 midnight which will be a proper crossover” Going further, Adeboye said “I found it funny because nobody has told us yet that Coronavirus attacks people at night. Nobody told us that Coronavirus is a witch because it is only witches who fly at night, and if the virus is a witch, then it means it can hear. If I am a witch and I hear that the people I want to kill would have run away to their houses by 12 midnight, then I would kill them by 11 or 10″ Speaking on the healing power of God, Adeboye said “God called me and said that Redeemed Christian Church of God is his church and he has vowed to protect his church. We are under the protection of God and there is no need to be afraid. “We will survive this period. Ebola came, we survived, Coronavirus has come and we will survive as long as we keep on praising God.” The President of CAN, Ayo Adekunle had earlier asked Christians in Nigeria to close all Crossover Service by 11pm in obedience to government and Illuminati based restrictions. I am happy that Pastor Adeboye had finally woken up to discover that those against the conduct of Crossover Night Services are Witches, Illuminati, Occult and Ritualistic Government officials. I have written on 28th December, a piece, I also circulated to many church leaders in Nigeria titled ’Cancellation of Crossover Services: Illuminati Arrests Winners, RCCG, Catholic Churches ‘ where I started by saying thus “The Covid-19 induced cancellation of crossover night services by our religious leaders on the orders of government over a scamdemics is another sign that Illuminati has arrested Winners, Redeemed Christian Church of God, Mountain of Fire, Catholic and Anglican Churches flamboyant new year crossover nights with all the anointing, deliverances, praise, declarations, warfare and everything associated with it.” I argued further in the piece that “It was the Grace of God that made government not to clamp down on Bishop Oyedepo during Shiloh. Bishop Oyedepo had to release a memo in the first week of December asking church members to reduce attendance at the Shiloh ground in Otta and make use of the viewing centers,. While attendance at Canaan-land reduced to half its normal capacity, that of viewing centres increased by over thirty percent. Oyedepo boasted on the last day of Shiloh that ” I knew Shiloh would hold”. “Pastor Adeboye did a live Holy Ghost Service of Friday, the rest of the Holy Ghost Congress was virtual, from Monday December 7th till Sunday 13th, and both the live Holy Ghost Service and the virtual services in their branches were a shadow of what it used to be. “Pastor Kumuyi was forced to cancel the December Life National December Retreat Easter at the last moment, and convert it to a virtual nonsense. Deeper Life National December Retreat has been ongoing since 1974, impacting lots of lives, Shiloh has been ongoing since 1999, same with Holy Ghost Congress, yet these spiritual activities that had kept the nation one, despite the handworks of looting politicians, is being cancelled in the name of scamdemic. “The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Renewal Ministries usually have special end of the year programmes of 25th to 26th December at Chosen Ground Ijesha with over 100,000 in attendance. Mgbidi Crusade of January has even more attendance annually “Mountain of Fire Ministries MFM 70- Day fasting ends on Crossover Night. Winners Chapel and Redeemed Christian Church of God unveil God’s agenda for the year during their crossover service. Dunamis International Gospel Centre has for over ten years attracted the largest crowd of worshipers during Crossover Service in FCT, with over 150,000 live at Glory Dome in 2020, overstretching the 100,000 capacity” I ended the article by calling upon the followers of the Big Men of God thus: “Let the sons of the prophets in Winners, RCCG, MFM, Deeper Life, Dunamis, Catholic and Anglican Churches protest this scamdemics shut down of churches crossover nights using all their spiritual and numerical authority before the Illuminati furthers their arrest of Cross-Over Night to arrest of our collective spirituality” I went further to sensitize as many gospel ministers as possible across Nigeria on why they should resist any attempt to frustrate their Crossover Night services the manner they frustrated their Christmas programmes in the name of Covid-19. Put lots of calls across and discussed strategies at length. I reminded them of my earlier prophesy in the controversial piece titled ‘CAMA Law: Illuminati Hijacks NASS, Nigeria’s Parliament’ which I wrote on September 18th. In that piece I stated thus “They don’t care about Bishop Oyedepo, Pastor Adeboye, Apostle Suleiman – they don’t even care about Pope Francis, Cardinals’ Arinze, Onaiyekan or Okogie. “The church have woken up late Let them wait till the last week of November, and they will be dealt a major blow that will last till January-then they will know that the ‘Skulls and Bones Society’ meant business.” I asked the gospel ministers to put pressure on their state chapters top pressurize government that the plot to cancel Crossover Night service is evil. I was glad that Abuja led the many states where the churches held Crossover Service with Covid-19 restrictions. I recall the second piece I wrote on the Covid-19 titled ‘Covid-19: Church Leaders Abandons God, Suspends Masses, Deliverances, Anointings’ where I warned Adeboye thus “The case of RCCG was most surprising. Pastor Adeboye held annual RCCG convention at the peak of Ebola Crisis in August 2014, and on the Friday of the event, estimated two million worshippers were at Redeemed Camp old auditorium. Such was the crowd for the Holy Ghost Service that people prayed that it would not rain because there was no seat inside the auditorium with worshippers littering every space outside. Yet there was no incidence of spread of Ebola after the one week programme. Today, our Daddy GO is afraid of Corona Virus” I was glad that Pastor Adeboye had found his voice on the Covid Scamdemic. Pastor Adeboye went further to say on Sunday that “We will survive this period. Ebola came, we survived, Coronavirus has come and we will survive as long as we keep on praising God.” Pastor Adeboye had earlier told BILL Gates why Covid-19 had not killed people in Africa. According to Adeboye: “When I read that it will take 10 years to vaccinate people in the U.S., I wonder when the vaccine will come to Nigeria. We have no money; we have no resources, but we have God. They expected us to be dying like flies, but we have a God who says he that dwells in the secret place will be under the shadow of the almighty.” I want to thank all the Pastors, Priests, and Gospel Ministers who called, inquired and showed concerns. I want to tell them that the Illuminati Plan for Nigeria in 2021 has failed woefully. There will be no mass death due to Covid-19 in 2021. I hav e seen the revelation the manner I saw the four phases in which Covid will disappear in Nigeria which I had shared in an earlier write-up titled ‘Shut Up! Covid-19 Will Not Swallow Nigeria, Africa ‘ where I outlined the phases thus: “Covid-19 will not swallow Nigeria according to the visions and revelations I saw on the high mountains and Bill Gates, NCDC, WHO and Covid-19 Task force should shut up! “The vision that I saw was in four phases; Phase1 -Seen in February 2020- Flood of evil ravaging the world, penetrating into Africa and Nigeria and I had to climb higher to avoid the flood. “Phase 2 -Seen in March 2020- Soldiers on the streets of Abuja and Lagos harassing and keeping people indoor forcefully “Phase 3 -Seen in April 2020 – Churches, including Our Lady, Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral, Abuja holding services with face mask, hand sanitizers, hand wash and few social distancing “Phase 4-Seen in April 2020-Churches, including Faith Tabernacle, holding services without face masks and services jam-packed” Above all I want to thank Almighty God who warned me of this evil plot to stop the 2020 Crossover Night Services when clubs, markets, motor parks, event centers, squares and all manners of ceremonies are going on. I want to confidently tell Nigerians who care to listen that due to the intervention of churches that ensured that there is ample Crossover Service into 2021; the plot of the Iluminati over Nigeria has failed. According to my New Year recent revelations, Most of the casualties of Covid-19 will be politicians and top businessmen. God will shield the masses from the second wave. People will die, but the number will still be negligible, and those whose trust is in the Covid-19 Vaccine will be surprised that many will survive without the vaccine. They caged Pastor Adeboye, Oyedepo, Kumuyi during Crossover service but now that Adeboye had realized himself, one expects that himself and Bishop Oyedepo will form a formidable blockage against the Covid19 Scammers who wants to chip 100 million Nigerians with dangerous vaccine-indeed with this new development the Covid-19 Scammers will not find it easy in 2021. Obinna Akukwe, Columnist, Cleric, profetobinna2@yahoo.com, @obinnaakukwe