Ibrahim Sheriff, a former Special Assistant on Media to the Speaker, Kwara State House of Assembly, on Friday said he has accepted his sack in good faith. Sheriff’s sack which has been a subject of debate was transmitted first through the blog owned by the Special Assistant on New Media to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, (Findelinfo.com) at about 8 a.m on Thursday, February 4th, 2021. Twenty-four hours after the rumoured sack, Sheriff confirmed to DAILY POST in Ilorin, on phone that “the development was true.” He said, “I tarried all day to be sure that I was truly sacked by my employer, Hon. Yakubu Danladi Salihu, but 24 hours after yours sincerely has received no notification, verbal or written, that points to it. ” But, I know I have been sacked by domineering government forces, who had always been intimidated by my professional and conscientious opinions on issues, at least, something in the very inside of me tells this much. ” For the governor’s aides to have so gleefully broken my sack online, even if I was never an official employee of either the governor, or the Kwara State House of Assembly, it tells a lot,” he declared. He traced his sack to the fracas at the Banquet hall in Ilorin, where a stakeholders meeting of the party was scheduled to hold on Wednesday by the Senator John Danboi committee on registration and revalidation of party members. Sheriff said he rescued the former chairman of the party’s state executive committee, Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa and another member of the party, Olayiwola Karatu from attackers at the venue of the meeting. Giving a graphic account of the scenario at the Banquet hall on Wednesday, Sheriff said, ” I was at the Banquet hall on a formal invitation of Senator John Danboi, the leader of the APC membership registration exercise team. ” I was there early with the hope to pick a front seat, but despite that, we arrived on schedule, the entrance to the event was under locks and keys till 2p.m. “There were a lot of people and party stakeholders, who were standing in the Sun to enter the hall. But they were all locked out for reasons best known to the organizers. ” It was in the middle of this that, the removed chairman caretaker committee of the APC, Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa, dashed in. How he came, where he came from, I would not know. ” But as he made for the door, a woman suddenly appeared from among the crowd, charged at him, grabbed his shirts and locked it. ” It was obvious that the woman was on a mission, either to kill BOB, or strip him naked,” he stated, adding that “every person with good conscience had to come to BOB’s rescue.” Sheriff said everybody forgot party affiliations at that moment, to do what we felt was right and moral. And we did rescue him from the firm grip of the violent woman.” According to him, “At that point, it dawned on all the rescuers, including me that the only place safe for Bolarinwa, was inside the Banquet hall itself.” He said, “If, we had acted otherwise, I can bet you, BOB would not have made it out of the Kwara State Banquet hall alive. It was that terrible.” Sheriff said, “This is the part I played at the Banquet hall, no more, no less. This is what I would have done for anybody else. I would have done same for Governor A. A, if I found him in that sorry situation. ” So, it was not about BOB, it was about what was right and moral, what was decent,” he stated. Sheriff argued that, that scenario was perhaps what his friends in the Government House saw in a video, that made them announce his sack, “they were so recklessly desperate, they forgot I was never on their payroll.” “But I accept the sack in good faith, nevertheless, I did it for my boss, Hon Yakubu Danladi Salihu, for his peace and being under immense pressure before now to sack me for not sucking up enough to the powers that be. ” To our governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, as a young man growing up, I learnt certain values. We learn to play fair, we learnt not to hit people, we learnt to clean up our own mess, we learnt not to take what is not ours, and we learnt to say we are sorry when we hurt somebody. These are basic values we learnt as children,” Sheriff further noted.