A University of Lagos don, Professor Yemi Oke, has described Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the most competent Yoruba leader to become the ruling party’s 2023 presidential candidate. Professor Oke in his Keynote address, on Tuesday at the launching of the Ogun State Chapter of South West Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu 2023 (SWAGA ’23) disclosed that there is no leader in the entire South-West Nigeria who can beat Asiwaju’s achievements, hence, the decision of the group to work for his emergence as the APC’s presidential candidate come 2023. The don explained that the choice of Asiwaju was as a result of his immense contributions to the development of the South-West and the nation in general. “Should any South-West politician aspire to compete with Asiwaju, “such a person will have to tell us the impact he has made in Yorubaland and Nigeria as a whole. “Nobody is talking about another candidate in the party. Yorubas have come together for one purpose and our message is loud and clear, the next dispensation, we are clamouring for the emergence of a Yoruba man as the next president of this country. ‘We have searched through all major Yoruba politicians, all are qualified no doubt but the best of them is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and that is what has brought us together. In unison, we are saying, Asiwaju should come out and run because of the support in all the states.” He added, “in the evolution of political engagement in Nigeria, Yoruba people have played very critical roles and we can reflect the tremendous contribution of Tinubu which nobody will doubt. “Infact, most governors in the country emerged through the help of Tinubu. We believe strongly in the unity of this country without losing the Yoruba agenda. Also speaking, the National Chairman of the group, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, said the objective of the group is to ensure the emergence of Bola Tinubu as the country’s next president. “No other person can contest the candidature of Asiwaju. I am bold to say that Asiwaju’s emergence would result in total transformation of Nigeria”, the SWAGA Chairman assured.