There was tension in Ogun State as suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded some villages in Yewa North Local Government area of Ogun State on Friday night. Four persons were said to have been killed, and many, including children sustained varying degrees of injuries. The attack came barely 24 hours after many were said to have been killed in Owode Ketu, an incident that was described as a reprisal to the burning of Fulani settlement during the visit of Sunday Igboho to Eggua. A source told our correspondent that the suspected herdsmen stormed Orile-Igbooro to shoot and set houses on fire. “Presently at Orile-Igbooro, Fulani headsmen are attacking the people of the community. They are burning the houses and shooting the villagers presently,” the source said anonymously on Friday night. Confirming the incident to DAILY POST, the lawmaker representing Ketu constituency at the Ogun State House of Assembly, Hon. Haruna Egungbohun, said the situation was getting out of hand. Speaking with our correspondent around 11pm on Friday, Egungbohun said, “it’s true, the killer herdsmen have attacked again this night. This is becoming unbearable.” Egungbohun said “we have called the police to come to our aid but we have not got help yet.” The lawmaker disclosed that he has also contacted the Ogun State Government for help. “We are calling and begging Mr Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun to use his good office to strengthen security measures in Ketu land,” it was said. Our correspondent gathered that the attackers also went to Oja-Odan, all in Yewa North to attack residents. When contacted for updates on Saturday morning, Hon. Egungbohun said, “We have recovered four dead bodies so far. We are still searching for others. Those who sustained injuries are many. We have not got any help from any security agency or government.” DAILY POST reports that Gov Abiodun recently said he had deployed a task force to Ogun West to forestall further attacks on the people of the border communities. DAILY POST reports that some youths under the auspices of Yewa North Patriotic Forum had issued a seven-day ultimatum to killer herdsmen in Yewa North to vacate the area. Efforts to get the reaction of the Ogun State Police Public Relatons Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, were unsuccessful as calls to his phone were not answered as of Saturday morning.