Many people have been reportedly killed by armed bandits in two local government areas of Kaduna State. It was gathered that nine persons were killed in Igabi and Chikun local government areas The state Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement explained that security agencies reported that a sequence of attacks by armed bandits on soft targets in Igabi and Chikun Local Government Areas occurred over the last 48 hours. According to the reports, Anaba Village in Igabi Local Government Area was attacked with seven residents killed. According to the report, “Many of the houses in the community were burnt down, along with storehouses and barns. About 20 cows were rustled and some poultry slaughtered and carted away.” It said that Barinje village in Chikun Local Government Area was attacked, with eight persons killed. It added that some residents were abducted, and cattle rustled during the attack. An unspecified number of injured victims are receiving treatment in the hospital. The statement explained that the attacks on these soft targets at Anaba and Barinje villages in Igabi and Chikun LGAs respectively followed the killing of several armed bandits via targeted air operations. It further explained that air platforms had earlier conducted armed reconnaissance around Anaba village, explaining that the crew observed houses on fire and locals migrating to nearby settlements. According to the statement, some motorbikes were observed with suspicious movements underneath some trees; probing shots were fired at these. It explained that herds of cattle were spotted with bandits at Malul Forest and were engaged accordingly. Also, according to the report, air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance over some affected locations. Kawuri, Chikun, Godani, Kusasu, Godani Station, Kwafe, Kuduru, Irina, Chikwale, Kudame, Kwakwau, Beni, Akilbu, Polewire, Rijana, Rugu, Olam farms and adjoining areas were covered. It said the bandits in large numbers on motorcycles were sighted on a track leading to Kankomi, stressing that they were trailed and engaged by the crew, with scores seen neutralized afterwards. Similarly, following intelligence of bandits converging at forests in between Maidaro/Damari general area of Giwa/Birnin Gwari LGAs, armed reconnaissance was conducted over the locations, in conjunction with ground troops who conducted cordon-and-search operations in the area. It explained that a further mission was conducted over Gagafada, Birnin Gwari LGA, stressing that no suspicious activities were observed here, but the scan was extended to Gwaska, Goron Dutse, Kuyanbana, Maidaro and Sabon Birni. It observed that suspicious movements were sighted at Goron Dutse, the sources of which were promptly engaged and neutralized, while also at Kuyanbana, a long convoy of motorcycles was observed heading into the forest, which was likewise vigorously engaged and neutralized. The statement explained that the security agencies appealed to the communities to report anyone found with suspicious bullet wounds to the Security Operations. Aruwan further added, “Regrettably, armed bandits attacked the loosely connected communities of Kwarten Rigasa, Kwarten Waziri and Kwarten Shaku in Igabi local government area.” The bandits, it was gathered, reportedly emerged from the Buruku area and raided the villages in a cattle rustling operation. In the process, one Danjuma Isa from neighbouring Ungwan Kanti village was killed, as he made his way on foot to Kwarten Rigasa. Similarly, it said that armed bandits invaded Sanhu Makera village, Birnin Yero, Igabi local government area and killed one Yakubu Abdullahi, a farmer in the village. In another incident, unknown assailants killed one Maryam Lash Tahir in unusual circumstances, at the Ministerial Pilot Housing Estate, Millennium City, Chikun local government area. Suspected bandits kill 18 across Kaduna villages Bandits attack Kaduna village, kidnap women Kaduna: Bandits kill four in Igabi, Kajuru communities