The Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Aysde, has decried the rising monthly wage bill of the state. Speaking in Calabar during the 2021 South South Mandatory Continuing Professional Development Programme of Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, ANAN, the governor lamented that the wage bill has increased astronomically. He urged the accountants to seek ways to address the financial burden plaguing the states and the nation at large. “Considering the upheavals recorded in our national economy accentuated by global COVID-19 pandemic, the great role played by accountants in nation building and the need to re-engineer the accounting profession and place it at the appropriate pedestal to contribute to integrated growth and national development cannot be over emphasised.” The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to Government, Mrs. Banko Agbor, stated that efforts were being made to weed out those whose names appear double in the state’s payroll. “The accounting subsector of any economy is an important and crucial component of development. This is because finance and administration have over time proven to be inseparable components in governance as operations at either public or private levels must necessarily be pivoted by proper accounting systems and regulations that act as the fulcrum for revenue generation and projects delivery.” President of ANAN, Professor Muhammad Mainoma said the need for continuous sharpening of knowledge and skills of accountants to position them for effective auditing and accounting responsibilities is the reason for conference. “There is a need for advancement and enhancement of the role of those who serve as gatekeepers to the finances of any government or organisation so such people should be equipped with the appropriate knowledge and information.” He said rising cases of corruption in the country can only be tackled by effective accounting procedures and called on the members to pay attention to all the lectures and discussions during the conference. Cross River inherited 1,840 court cases from previous administration - Gov Ayade End SARS: Lawmakers' houses, Police Stations, bank, others destroyed in Cross River Cross River: Nigerian labour pickets Accountant General's office over non remittance of deductions