Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has ordered the clinical trial of Ivermectin, a drug believed to be effective for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19. The governor stated this on Sunday while giving an update on the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. According to Sanwo-Olu, though there is yet to be any approval for Ivermectin to be used for the treatment of COVID-19, the state government had gone ahead to ensure it has enough stock of the drug. He said: “The State Government is aware of numerous international claims that the broad spectrum anti-parasitic agent/medication Ivermectin has shown some efficacy in acting as a sustained prophylaxis in containing/inhibiting the causative virus in SARS CoV-2. “While this medication has not yet been approved for the broad treatment of the Coronavirus disease, the State Government has however taken the bold step of ensuring we have adequate stocks of Ivermectin, which will be initially deployed in a short clinical trial to ascertain its efficiency in our population to prevent and treat COVID-19 infection.” DAILY POST recalls that a group of Nigerian scientists both at home and in the Diaspora had carried out a research into the effectiveness of Ivermectin for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19. In their report, which was presented to the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the scientists said the drug, that had been utilized for the treatment of river blindness in the country, shows encouraging results against the deadly virus. Sanwo-Olu, also in the update, hinted that COVID-19 patients in the state who require oxygen would get it free of charge. According to him, the state government is working to ensure that supply of oxygen in the state do not just meet demand but surpass it. On COVID-19 vaccines, Sanwo-Olu said frontline workers, persons with co-morbidities, essential workers and the elderly within the age bracket of 50 to 65 and above would be given priority, when the vaccines finally arrive the state. “The Government will keep the integrity of the vaccines intact along the entire supply and distribution chain, while also ensuring approved dosages are complied with. “The state will follow up on possible post-vaccination adverse event; the monitoring strategy will be diligently followed in line with protocols of pharmaceutical public safety,” the governor said. It would be recalled that the Lagos State government had said that it was already discussing with COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers on how the state can procure for residents, Independent of the arrangement being made by the Federal Government. A data released by the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency on the distribution of the 100,000 doses of vaccines being expected by the Federal Government, showed that Lagos trailed behind a state like Kano.