The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has warned that it would not fold its hands and watch Muslim students being persecuted in Kwara State. MURIC said that Kwara is a predominantly Muslim State, advising missionary school owners to take their business to Rivers State instead of trying to change the identity of Muslim children by force, adding that Governor Nyesom Wike is waiting with open arms to accept them.. The group was reacting to the hijab imbroglio going on in the State, wherein some public school teachers were said to have forced female Muslim students to remove their hijab within the school premises. The development has generated controversy across the State, leading to the closure of ten schools by the State government. Wading into the matter, MURIC has vowed to take all necessary constitutional measures to stop the oppression of innocent female Muslim pupils across Kwara State. The position of the Islamic human rights group was contained in a statement issued by its director, Professor Ishaq Akintola. According to MURIC, “On our own part, we will not allow… evil to prevail in Kwara as they did in some states in the South West on the issue of hijab. “The authorities of those ten missionary schools should be ashamed of behaving like oppressors and slave masters. “Yes. We say it boldly, loudly and clearly. Kwara is a predominantly Muslim state. It is absolutely absurd for any group to think it can subject Muslim children to oppression in such a place. Infra dignitatem. “Take your missionary schools to Rivers State if you want to change the identity of Muslim children by force. Nyesom Wike is waiting with open arms to accept you. “Afterwards he has illegally declared his state a Christian state in violation of and to the chagrin of Section 10 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But not in Kwara State.” The group called on Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to shun all illegal, illegitimate and unconstitutional compromises that could provoke Kwara Muslims in the State. The Islamic rights advocacy group said it would not surrender its fight but would take all necessary constitutional actions to ensure that female Muslim students used their hijab.