The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has said that the extension of the tenure of the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, by President Muhammadu Buhari may not be unconnected to his alleged third term agenda. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Monday, Emmanuel Onwubiko, HURIWA’s National Coordinator, pointed out that if the President could extend the IGP’s tenure, he can as well extend his own without the legislative arm questioning him. The group also lambasted the National Assembly for keeping quiet in the face of abuse of the law by the President, adding that Nigerians are now too hungry to speak or take action He said, “The extension of the tenure of the Inspector General of Police is illegal and we completely support the Nigerian Bar Association for their courage to proceed to a court of competent jurisdiction to challenge this illegality that has been committed by Mr. President. “It’s a shame that we have a national assembly. I don’t know what to call them, a National Assembly of puppets. The National Assembly is being manipulated by the President. “The National Assembly that is supposed to oversight the police for instance has said nothing. They’ve kept quiet. Nigerians no longer talk. People have been out of job for so long and are so hungry that they can no longer talk. “People are too tired to talk if not Nigerians should be on the streets by now protesting. We say the NBA must not be discouraged in this case and any judge that delays the matter is an enemy of Nigeria. “And any judge that handles the matter must hear it expeditiously. The case of the illegality of extending the tenure of the IGP of police that is clearly written in black and white in the law that was signed by the President that you cannot exceed retirement. “Now we have an ex-police officer holding the office of the Inspector General of Police which is completely illegal. What right has the police now to arrest a Yahoo Yahoo boy who is impersonating and doing a love scam? “We have an IG that should have quietly gone to his house having served the country for 35 years. We have a police act that was signed by the President in 2020 in a clear language. And the National Assembly is quiet. “There is fire on the mountain. And some of you, some Nigerians are quiet. This could be a prelude to a third term gambit. If a President can extend the tenure of the IG he can as well extend his own tenure and these puppets we have in the National Assembly will do nothing.”