The management of Osun State University, UNIOSUN teaching hospital has denied a report that hoodlums invaded the hospital last week to retrieve the corpse of a patient who died of COVID-19. The report said the family of a deceased COVID-19 patient invited hoodlums to carry their corpses from the hospital without obeying NCDC guidelines. There were reports on Tuesday that hoodlums attacked the hospital and allegedly unplugged the life-support machines of some patients in the Accident and Emergency Unit. A statement by the Public Relations Officer, Ayodele Adeyemo, on Sunday confirmed that two patients who were admitted to the Holding Bay died before the result of their COVID-19 test was released. The result which came after their death confirmed that the patients died of Coronavirus. Speaking on the incident, Adeyemo said, “The relations of the patients wanted to collect the corpses immediately but were told that the NCDC protocols guiding the release of COVID-19 dead victims must be followed. “This did not go well with the victim’s relations and friends who became restive and destructive. Security agents later intervened and the situation was eventually brought under control with the relations agreeing with the guidelines.” While condemning the actions of the relations, he denounced the rumour peddled by “ill-informed miscreants”, saying “it was not true that life-support machines of some patients in the Accident and Emergency section of the hospital were removed.” Adeyemo further noted that patients who die from COVID infection must be buried by the COVID team to avoid spread and infection of other members of the public. He implored Osun citizens and residents to remain safe and take responsibility for their wellbeing by complying with all COVID-19 prevention guidelines. “The management of UNIOSUN TEACHING HOSPITAL Osogbo wishes to assure the general public and all our patients that the hospital will strictly adhere to all COVID-19 protocols in accepting and managing its patients,” he added.