Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Sunday, visited the Ibarapa area of the state, his first after the herdsmen/residents crisis that engulfed the area. DAILY POST recalls that tension rose in Igangan, an ancient town in the Ibarapa area after Fulani herdsmen in the community were given a seven-day quit notice by a Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho. Igboho and the residents of the community had accused the herdsmen of perpetrating crimes including killings, kidnapping, rape and destruction of farms in the area. Igboho and his followers stormed the community at the expiration of the quit notice, during which the Seriki Fulani of Igangan, Alhaji Saliu Abdukadir was forced out of the community. His houses and cars were also torched during the violence that ensued. Makinde, who was accused of not visiting Ibarapa on Sunday by a former governorship candidate in the state, Senator Femi Lanlehin, said his visit to the area was to feel the pulse of the people, assuring them that their problems are his problems and responsibilities. Speaking at a stakeholders meeting comprising select stakeholders, local government chairmen and political office holders from the area in Igbo Ora, who said he feels the pains of the people, Makinde approved the composition of a Peace and Security Committee at the local government levels aside other measures the state government is putting in place. Speaking further, the governor hinted on the takeoff of the registration of all residents in the state, adding that the exercise will help the state government to know who is who in every community. “The take-home from the interaction for me is that it is a collective problem and I can see the commitment from everybody to find a solution to this. “At least, I am quite glad that some of the initiatives that the government is trying to put in place to stem insecurity are coming to fruition. “We will ensure that our identity management programme takes off as quickly as possible. We will also ensure the setting up of peace and security committee that is all-encompassing in the councils.”