The Middle Belt Forum, MBF, has described as orchestrated and unpatriotic, the distribution of a video clip alleging an illegal blocking of food items to the South from the north at a Jebba village in Niger State by some unidentified persons. The forum which claimed it opposes such actions warned that it was capable of creating a rift and widening the already fragile nature of Nigeria’s corporate existence. The MBF in a statement issued by its National President, Dr Pogu Bitrus, said blocking food items from leaving the North to the South was not only criminal but an attempt to throw the entire nation into chaos. “We are not only stunned by this act which we believe is orchestrated by some unpatriotic elements but also shocked at this despicable action. It called on the Federal Government and other relevant security agencies to flush out the hooligans to discourage retaliation from the southern part. “Amidst the ongoing banditry in various parts of the country, the deliberate blockage of food items is nothing short of waging another form of terrorism on Nigerians. We cannot as a nation afford to deal with these urchins and bandits with kid gloves.” It explained that the Federal Government needs to do something drastically to send clear signals that outlaws whoever threatens the country. “If we must take back our nation from these demons of destruction, we must never negotiate and treat them softly,” the forum advised. It explained that as the umbrella organization for all ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt, the forum firmly believes that the only way for a prosperous Nigeria is to restructure, stressing that it would not only broaden the country’s potentials but give ethnic nationalities in the Nigerian Nation a space to develop and fully realise their potentials. The forum advised, “We must avoid any form of aggressive tendencies in resisting and enthroning the victory of unpatriotic elements. If some elements should block the transportation of petroleum products to the North from the South as retaliatory measures, what likely consequences would this have on our nation?”