Following the second wave of coronavirus infection across the country, the Abia State government has placed a five thousand naira(5,000) fine on any resident of the state without a face mask. The State Government also disclosed that it has banned cultural festivals till further notice and warned that it would hold responsible the Traditional Ruler of any community that contravenes the government’s directive in preventing the COVID-19 infections. The Government in a press release signed by the Secretary to the Abia State Government and Chairman Inter Ministerial Committee on COVID-19, Barrister Chris Ezem and made available to newsmen, on Saturday, in Umuahia, directed that all hotels and hospitality places paste a “No face mask No entry” banner at their entrances and maintain all COVID-19 protocols. It added that any contravention will attract N100,000.00 fine including sealing off of the premises. The Government’s statement said, “All churches are now to operate on a 50-person basis per stream and must conclude all religious activities by 2pm on Sundays and Saturdays whichever is applicable. All weekly activities must be limited to 2 activities only. Whilst night vigil and crusades are totally banned. All religious places of worship must paste at its entrances “No face mask No entry. “All eateries are now to operate on a take away basis and must maintain all covid-19 protocols at their premises. They must place at their entrance “No face mask No entry” sign. They must ensure the availability of running water and sanitizers at their premises. Any contravention will attract a fine of N100,000.00 and the premises will be sealed off. “All COVID-19 market Committees are to be revived and must ensure total compliance with all COVID-19 protocols at all markets failing which the Government will not hesitate to shut down such a market and proscribe its Union. “All burials and weddings must be limited to 50 persons only and maintain all COVID-19 protocols. Traditional rulers of communities must liaise with the Local Government Chairman of the relevant Local Government and set up an enforcement Committee made up of people of integrity to ensure compliance. The enforcement Committee is at liberty to stop any burial or wedding in contravention. “All public places, ministries and parastatals must paste at their entrances “No face mask No entry” sign.
All schools, private and public, must observe all COVID-19 protocols. “Community testing and sample collection is ongoing in all the 17 LGA’s. The State medical protocol team are in place and our molecular lab is 24 hours in operation to run samples”. The State Government, however, urged all Abians to continue to observe and comply with all COVID-19 protocols and take these directives seriously.