The police command in Bauchi State has arrested a suspected ritualist over the killing of a child. They also recovered 26 pairs of children’s clothing in the suspect’s house in Ganjuwa Local Government Area (LGA) of the State. This is contained in a statement, signed by SP Ahmed Wakili, the state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), which was made available to newsmen in Bauchi on Sunday. According to the statement, the 28-year-old suspect, Rufa’i Yunusa, who hailed from Rumbu Village in Ningi LGA, was allegedly involved in the killing of not less than four children. The police spokesman revealed that Yunusa’s arrest was sequel to a complaint lodged at the Ganjuwa Division of the State Command on February 17 by one Isyaku Ahmed who reported that on Tuesday 16 February, 2021, that Yunusa took his daughter, Maimuna, to a traditional Native Doctor for traditional treatment. Yunusa told the father that his daughter was suffering from a spiritual ailment and assured him that she would be cured. He collected N10,000 from the father and took the little girl into the forest, purportedly for a spiritual healing session. However, after a while, he returned to inform the father that the little girl had mysteriously disappeared during the process. “On receipt of the report, the Ganjuwa Divisional Patrol team swung into action, combed the entire forest and found the slaughtered body of Maimuna. She was immediately rushed to a hospital where she was pronounced dead by a Medical Doctor. “The ritualist (Rufa’i Yunusa) has since been arrested in connection with the crime and during interrogation he voluntarily confessed to have slaughtered Maimuna. “He further revealed that she was not his only victim and claimed to have been carrying out the act with parental consent by tacitly informing them that the children may not return during healing sessions. “A knife and 26 pairs of children’s clothing were recovered as exhibits during the operation. Investigations are on-going after which the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution and possible conviction,” said the PPRO. Wakili cautioned parents to be wary of whom they took their children for any form of healing, urging them to always follow the proper channels in seeking remedies for their sick children. “There abound many wolves in sheep’s clothing,” he warned.