Olusegun Bamgbose, a chieftain of the New Nigerian Peoples Party, NNPP, has said that a recent comment credited to the Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, wherein he advised Nigerians to defend themselves against bandits has marked the end to the President Muhammadu Buhari government. He also noted that the recent kidnapping of students from a Niger State school by bandits was an indication that the government had become helpless in handling the security challenges facing the nation. Reports have it that there were more cases of kidnappings and killings after the students were abducted. “It’s crystal clear that there may be no hope at sight,” Bamgbose told DAILY POST on Sunday. The Defence Minister was recently quoted to have said that Nigerians should rise up and defend themselves. Bamgbose continued, “The question begging for an answer is- with what will they defend themselves? The former Chief of Army Staff also added his voice by submitting that the insecurity situation may be with us for the next 20 years. . “In essence it can be safely asserted that Buhari lacks what it takes to secure Nigeria. One wonders what else he is doing in the State House if he can’t guarantee the safety and security of the citizens.” On the abducted students, he said possibly the Federal Government has paid the N800m ransom, stressing “This is so sad. “He has even gone further to ask the government to grant the criminals, murderers and terrorists amnesty, this is so unfortunate. “It’s so disheartening. He has equally informed the public that the bandits are requesting for the release of their fellow bandits arrested by the government. “What a shame of the nation! Can Gumi swear by the Qur’an that he won’t benefit from the ransom that will be given to the bandits. Is this not tantamount to aiding and abetting on the part of Gumi negotiating on behalf of bandits openly? “Buhari’s government has actually murdered governance in Nigeria. He has bastardised our institutions. How can a retired General allow Nigeria to be messed up by bandits in this way. “It’s really so sad. Will it not be better for Buhari to hand over the security of the citizens to bandits since our security can no longer contain them. Let’s integrate them in our security architecture. “This is most demoralizing that the most populated black race in the world is in such a mess. One will however advise Buhari to stop empowering criminals, he should act like a General in the army and not allow untrained criminals to mess up our security forces. “It’s a big shame that bandits have almost taken over the country. Who knows one of these days they will invade the State House and cause havoc. “Buhari should act decisively. I foresee revolution, if this government will continue this way. There is a limit to everything in life. Enough is enough.”