Former Liverpool striker, Michael Owen, has predicted Leicester City to beat Arsenal when both sides clash in the Premier League on Sunday afternoon at the King Power Stadium. Owen also backed Manchester United and Chelsea to play a goalless draw at Stamford Bridge on Sunday evening. According to him, Everton will beat Southampton at Goodison Park on Monday. “There were differing fortunes for both sides in Thursday’s Europa League fixtures. I was surprised to see Leicester crash out but was equally impressed by Arsenal’s fight-back against Benfica,” Owen told BetVictor. “I think if you asked Brendan Rodgers privately, he’d agree that UEFA Champions League qualification is the priority for the Foxes this season. “It will be interesting to see how this one plays out. Arsenal will most likely have the majority of the ball, and I think that could play into Leicester’s hands. “As I’ve previously mentioned, Messrs Barnes, Maddison, and Vardy are all playing fantastically just now, and if they’re on song again, I think Leicester will win an entertaining contest. Leicester City v Arsenal 2-1.” Speaking on the Chelsea vs Manchester United game, Owen said, “Arguably the game of the weekend, Manchester United travel to Stamford Bridge with a fantastic away record. “If this were a few months ago, I’d have fancied United to take advantage of Chelsea’s attacking style on the counter. “However, since Thomas Tuchel has arrived, all that has changed. Chelsea have a solidness about them and are a real throwback to what we saw when Jose Mourinho arrived there all those years ago. “With that in mind, I expect Chelsea to give up some territory, which won’t suit United at all. I’m predicting a real tactical battle, and in the end, I think we may end up with a stalemate. Chelsea v Manchester United 0-0.” Commenting on the Everton vs Southampton, Owen said, “What a job Carlo Ancelotti is doing. For me, it’s no surprise as he is up there with the very best. A lot of eyebrows were raised at Everton’s starting XI last weekend, but boy, did they get the job done. “Ralph Hasenhüttl is another manager that has impressed me so much this season. Southampton may have had a bit of a mid-season slump, but I think that’s down to tiredness more than anything else. “I’m looking forward to this one and expect a decent match. There’s not too much between the sides, but on the current form, it has to be Everton for me. I think it’ll finish 2-1 to the Toffees. Everton v Southampton 2-1.” The kick-off time for Leicester City vs Arsenal is 1 pm, while that of Chelsea vs Man United is 5:30 pm and Everton vs Southampton is 9 pm.