Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1.The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the alleged killing of End SARS protesters by soldiers at the Lekki tollgate in October 2020, yesterday, approved the reopening of the toll plaza. 2. Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige has said the strike action by the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities is illegal. The Minister said this during a meeting with the union on Friday. 3.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has not shortlisted Nigeria for the Pfizer vaccines. This is because of the country’s failure to meet the standard requirement to store the vaccines at the required -70 degrees Celsius. 4. The federal government, yesterday, said Nigeria is making efforts to get the coronavirus vaccines by the end of February. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, made the disclosure to the NAN in Abuja. 5. President Muhammadu Buhari has hailed America for supporting the candidacy of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala for the position of Director-General of the World Trade Organization (WTO). The office of the United States Trade Representative announced this on Friday. 6. The Federal Government on Saturday distributed food items to the members of the defunct Bakassi Strike Force who laid down their arms in 2018. The distribution was conducted by the Ministry of Niger Delta Affair. 7.Officers of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Edo State have arrested seven men in Ukpuje forest, Owan West Local Government Area of the state and discovered four dried warehouse containing 233,778kg of cannabis with an estimated street value of over 1.4 billion naira. 8.The Presidency on Saturday lashed out at opposition Peoples Democratic Party for faulting the recent nomination of former service chiefs as non-career ambassadors. 9. Anambra State Governor Chief Willie Obiano has ordered the immediate closure of Agbaedo Nnewi New Motor Spare Parts Market for one week over non-compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 1,588 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 19 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded infections in the country to 139,242