A Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, on Thursday, convicted a serving NYSC member, Sam Abiola and one Adeniyi Sodiq, over offences bordering on attempted cheating and love scam. The two convicts were arraigned before Justice Adenike Akinpelu, last week February 1, 2021, by the Ilorin Zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Abiola, 26, currently serving in Kogi State and Sodiq, 18, were arraigned on separate charges contrary to Section 321 of the Penal code law and punishable under Section 324 of the same law. While Abiola faced a one count charge, Sodiq was prosecuted on a four count charge, for which they pleaded guilty. The charge sheet against Abiola read; ” That you, Sam Abiola (Missie Bonnie), sometime between July 2019 and September 2019, in Ilorin, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did cheat by impersonation when you pretended to be one Missie Bonnie, a white female with Gmail account, missiebo271@gmail.com, and fraudulently deceived one Rick to send 550 US dollars to you through gift card after you made him believe you were in love with him, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 321 of the Penal code and punishable under Section 324 of the same penal code.” For Sodiq, count three of the charge sheet read; “That you, Adebiyi Sodiq (alias Maria Monica) sometime in August 2020, in Ilorin, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did cheat by impersonation via your email address, terrellwhite856@gmail.com, to one Manny, by portraying yourself as a white female, named Maria, and induced him to send you his cash App, a representation you knew to be false, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 324 of the Penal code and punishable under the same Section 324 of the same penal code.” The anti-graft agency, last week, reviewed the facts of the case after the defendants pleaded guilty to their separate charges. The EFCC, had urged the court to convict them based on their pleas and the evidence placed before it, but adjourned till Thursday for judgement. In her judgement, Justice Akinpelu, sentenced Abiola to six months imprisonment with an option of N100,000 fine. Sodiq was also sentenced to six months jail on each of the four counts, with an option of N100,000 fine on each count. Justice Akinpelu, ordered that the convicts phones and laptops used as instruments to perpetrate the crime be forfeited to the Federal government of Nigeria.