Political and business leaders as well as top artists will, on Friday, storm Stanel Dome in Awka, Anambra State capital for yet another ‘Access More with Stanel Master Class’. Access More with Stanel Master Class is a platform to engage, mentor and empower trained Nigerian youths organised by Stanel Group in collaboration with Access Bank Plc and the Anambra State government. In the 2021 edition will be various attractive prizes including Dr Stanley Uzochukwu empowerment grants of two Million Naira (N2,000,000) for four (4) lucky registered participants of the Master Class who meet the requirement. Recall that in 2019 edition, Innoson brand new car and other prizes were won by lucky participants. The host of the prestigious annual youth’s empowerment event and Chairman of the Stanel brand, Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu is raising youths, widows, orphans through job creation and empowerment programmes, a passion he has persistently pursued and had earned the admirations of Nigerian political and business leaders across board at a very tender age. The Master Class shall be declared open by the Executive Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano and also expected as Special Guests of Honour are Senate Whip; Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and a former Senate President, Sen. Anyim Pius Anyim. Keynote speakers at the event under the Distinguished Guest Speaker, Obi of Onitsha; HRM Nnaemeka Achebe are business leaders and influencers including the MD/CEO of Access Bank Plc; Dr Herbert Wigwe, Chairman of Air Peace Airlines; Dr Allen Onyema, Chairman of COSCHARIS; Dr Cosmas Maduka. Other speakers are former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Prof. Charles Soludo, CEO of Centre for Values in Leadership; Prof. Pat Utomi, CEO of KEMAPO Management Consulting Group; Prof. Lillian Orogbu as well as the host, Dr. Uzochukwu. Panelists of the Master Class include: Actor Richard Mofe Damijo, Love Idoko Uloko, George Omoraro, Linus Idahosa, Kene Mkparu, Arch Apeh Harrison and Kingsley Eze. This will be followed by ‘Stanel Master Concert’ by Nigerian leading artists including Patoranking, Flavour, Funny bone, Slow dog, Umu Obiligbo, Zoro, Akpororo, Teni and Kcee on Day 2 of the event (February 13). Holding at Stanel Dome, Awka, the 3 days event shall kickstart with the ‘Master Class’ on Day 1 (February 12 at 9am), followed by the ‘Concert’ on Day 2 (February 13) and shall be wrapped up with ‘the Love Affairs’ on Day 3 (February 14). Participants are strictly advised to observe all COVID-19 protocols and safety guidelines as directed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Meanwhile, in ensuring the safety of all participants, Stanel has made adequate provision for free face masks, hand sanitizers, sanitised T-Shirts, faze caps and all participants shall be compelled to temperature checks and pass through sanitising boots at different stages before entering the fully sanitised Stanel Dome.