The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari over the nomination of Abdulrasheed Bawa as the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The group noted that Bawa is a fearless corruption fighter who had recorded many successes on the job. DAILY POST recalls that the President, on Tuesday appointed the 40-year-old Abdulrasheed Bawa as substantive chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Reacting, the NYCN described Abdulrasheed Bawa as a “world-class crime buster,” whose services as Chairman of the Commission would advance the fight against corruption in the country.” The group’s reaction was contained in a statement issued and made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday by its president, Solomon Adodo. The NYCN called for the immediate approval of Bawa’s appointment by the Senate, adding that the service of Bawa is urgently needed in the country as corruption continues to pierce through in different aspects of the government. It said Bawa’s appointment was not only a great win for Nigerian youths, but goes further to remind young Nigerians to always be prepared to take leadership positions. The NYCN expressed confidence on the nominated EFCC boss, stressing that he had great records as a compatriot Nigerian, hence the best for the job. The grouped stressed that Bawa had fought many battles in the Commission even when his life was threatened. “No one can better understand the workings of the Commission than a young officer who has spent all his career years within the establishment beginning from the point where the Commission was set up with its unique mandate to halt the negative tide of financial crimes. “Through diligent investigation, Mr. Bawa was able to unearth the Petroleum Subsidy Fraud between 2012 and 2015 N70Billion, recovered Billions and several companies were prosecuted duly,” the group said. Meanwhile, many Nigerians had raised concerns over the appointment, citing an online report on Bawa’s past records.