The 2019 governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) in the 2019 election, Engr. Ahmad Ibrahim Gusau has defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He announced that he has collapsed all his former party’s structure. Gusau, who defected along with the state Party Chairman, Alhaji A. A Bagudu and the Vice chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Bala Gusau said they took the decision to move the State forward. The PDM gubernatorial candidate announced his defection before Governor Matawalle and donated the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDP) secretariat to the Peoples Democratic Party in the State. “We decided to join Governor Bello Matawalle and the PDP in order to show our appreciation to the governor’s security approach which has yielded positive result and now requires every well meaning Zamfara State citizen’s support.” Ahmad further said that the transformational stance of the Governor was marvellous and encouraging, urging him to sustain it for the progress of the State. Receiving the PDM members, Governor Matawalle appreciated their patriotism and forecast by identifying with his administration’s achievements and for deciding to join his party, the Peoples Democratic Party in order to move the State higher. Matawalle said security issue required the support of all well meaning citizens, regardless of political affiliation and ethnic disposition. He also welcomed them to his party and assured them of equal opportunity, urging them to educate other people on the importance of having a peaceful and secured State where everyone can live freely without any fear of attack. Others that defected from the PDM to PDP include the Party’s Chair Lady, Hajiya Binta Maazu, Party Youth Leader, Abdullahi Ibrahim (Babangida) and the Party’s Three Senatorial Candidates in 2019, Alhaji Adamu Abu, Zamfara Central Zone, Engr. Sani Dahiru Kaura, Zamfara North, Alhaji Ibrahim Bukkuyum, Zamfara West and one State Assembly Candidate of Kaura North, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Haidara.