Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Senate on Thursday, summoned the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, and Director General of the Security and Exchange Commission, Lamido Yuguda, over the decision of the CBN to ban the use of cryptocurrency in the country. 2. The Nigerian Government on Thursday, vowed to crush any fresh strike at Lekki Toll Gate in Lagos by #EndSARS protesters. It warned Nigerians against participating in any protest to block the toll gate. 3. The Federal Government has threatened to stop the salaries of non-teaching workers of universities for embarking on an indefinite strike. Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige noted that Section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act 2004 and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) statutes permit the government to stop the salaries of workers when they are on strike. 4. Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, insisted that his home was invaded by cattle belonging to herdsmen. Soyinka said this while speaking on Arise TV on Thursday. 5. Experts across various industries have advised the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to regulate but not ban cryptocurrency because of the benefits it offers to innovative youths. 6. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday, said none of the gubernatorial aspirants on its platform has been disqualified, ahead of the November 6, Anambra State governorship election. 7. Following the reported cases of killing and kidnapping in Yewa by suspected Fulani herdsmen, the Ogun State Government has commenced the recruitment of officers for the Amotekun Corps. 8.The Federal Government has said the National Identity Number (NIN) is mandatory for transactions such as the opening of bank accounts, payment of taxes and voter registration. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, said this in Abuja on Thursday. 9. The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has said Fulani herders carry AK-47 for self-defence because they are being attacked by cattle rustlers. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 938 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria, bringing the total number of recorded infection in the country to 143,516.