Organisers of the 14th Headies award have come under attack over poor sound and technical issues that marred the 2021 edition of the event. The red carpet section of the 14th edition of Headies award was expected to begin at 7pm, while the award presentation and performance of artists was expected to kick off by 8pm. However, they experienced technical issues and sound mishaps as viewers could hear conversations which were supposed to be off-air. Also, DAILY POST observed that HipTv channel was on pause for some minutes before they turned off the red carpet interviews and went off-air. At the moment, the award is yet to begin which has stirred reactions from Nigerians who took to social media platforms to call out the production team of Headies award for what they described as embarrassment. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @Nosablaq “Headies production is always a trash. How can people complain every year and you keep doing nothing? @Datmastermind80 “Hiptv will have 1 full year to prepare for show, but won’t start until the night before. Be behaving like that student that had the whole week to do assignment, but choose to copy on the morning of submission.” @Temi_tayo “Is it money? Because DSTV/AFMAG pull this thing off effortlessly. Why can’t Headies get competent professionals to run this thing? @Tyrichiee “Headies award can never go a year in their life without technical problem. Na Embarrassment go kill una.” @QumaR “Incompetence and Headies award go hand in hand. It gets worse every year. So disappointed.” @Gistloversblog “This HIPTV production guys though. We can basically hear the conversation that’s supposed to be off-air #1 @Jidel_storm “Headies can y’all be any more embarrassing? We’ve got visitors from SA .” @Di_ben “I can’t remember the last time Headies award show was up to standard.” @Kaya_JN “Headies should kindly stop embarrassing us. They should stop after this.” @Therealtemz “It’s like these Headies people don’t understand how expensive Power is these days because what is all this rubbish.” @Therawdeeya ” Make the artistes wey Dey the event do live videos make we they stream abeg.”