The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan on Tuesday, confirmed that three persons were killed by bandits in Lere, Birnin Gwari local government areas. This was contained in a statement issued on Tuesday. Mr. Aruwan also said herders’ settlements were attacked in a reprisal in Kurmin Bi, Zangon Kataf LGA. “The military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) has reported an attack by armed bandits at Warsa Piti, in Mariri District of Lere local government area. “Quoting an eyewitness, the military stated that the attackers numbering about six, masked and dressed in black, invaded the community late on Monday night and began shooting sporadically.” “Troops on receiving a distress call mobilized to the location and engaged the assailants who then fled into the forest. However, two citizens had already been killed, identified as Sale Muhammad and Aguno Bawuro. “Similarly, the Kaduna State Government has received reports of an attack on Randagi village in Birnin Gwari local government area. One Dantani Maifaskari was killed and some others injured by bandits, who also looted shops in the area.” “The prompt response by the military in the air and on the ground helped immensely in knocking back the bandits. “In a separate incident, the military also reported that unidentified youths attacked a herders’ settlement in Kurmin Bi village of Zangon Kataf local government area. “According to the report, the attack was an apparent reprisal to the earlier attack on Wawan Rafi in the same local government in which one person was killed and several injured by armed bandits. “The herders in the settlement escaped but six cows were killed by the attackers, with four others injured. A house was also burnt down within the settlement.” The statement said “Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed sadness at the reports and prayed for the repose of the souls of those killed by the suspected robbers in the Lere local government area, and the bandits in Birnin Gwari. “He also appreciated the maturity and understanding being shown by the Birnin Gwari community and assured them that the government and security agencies will continue to work on the security situation in the Birnin Gwari general area. “Commenting on the reprisal attack in Kurmin Bi, the Governor enjoined all residents to embrace recourse to the law, rather than launch perceived counter attacks. He tasked the security agencies to step up investigations and stabilize the area. “Investigations into the incidents are in progress, as troops intensify patrols in the general areas.” The statement further added.