A House of Representatives member, Yusuf Gagdi says the All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold power in Nigeria for 100 years. Gagdi, representing Pankshin/Kanke/ Kanam federal constituency, made the declaration on Saturday. He spoke after revalidating his membership of the APC in Gum-Gagdi in Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State. The lawmaker stated that the party has been gaining momentum since 2015. Gagdi said APC’s performance over the years would make Nigerians vote for the platform in the 2023 general elections and beyond. “From the crowd you have seen here today, it is clear that APC, our party is on ground. Though God decides what happens, but with the achievements at various levels, we will retain power beyond 2023. “Infact, it is not just about the next general elections, but the party will remain in power for the next hundred years”, NAN quoted him as saying. Gagdi added that with the registration and revalidation exercise, more Nigerians would join the APC. This, he said, would boost the party’s strength and capacity to retain federal control. Gagdi’s comment is a replica of Vincent Ogbulafor’s assertion in 2008. The former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national chairman had boasted that the platform would rule Nigeria for 60 years. The PDP was dethroned 7 years later. On April 17, barely three weeks after the presidential election, Ogbulafor visited the then APC national chairman, John Oyegun, at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. Accosted by reporters, the Abia-born politician said: “I came back into town yesterday and I came to congratulate the national chairman of APC for a job well done.” Asked how he felt about Muhammadu Buhari’s emergence as President-elect, he replied: “I am very happy.” Ogbulafor was reminded of his brag that the PDP will retain the presidency for six decades. “Yes I said so. But when they dismantled the governors’ forum, what do you expect?”, the former minister retorted. 2023: Bamgbose writes off PDP, reveals only way APC can be defeated APC planning to disown President Buhari - PDP Reps to investigate statement made by UK MP against Gowon