Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Following President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to the Nigerian Senate seeking confirmation of the newly appointed ex-Service Chiefs, Senate on Wednesday commenced the process and have advised Nigerians to wait for their resolution. 2. The police in Ogun State, yesterday reacted to a viral video claiming that Fulani herdsmen had invaded Professor Wole Soyinka’s house in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. But the police said a young Fulani man, Awalu Muhammad, whose cow had got missing entered Soyinka’s vicinity in search of the animal. 3. The Federal Government will today resume its meeting with the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities and Allied Institutions in Abuja on how to end its ongoing strike. 4. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, has said bandits cannot be proscribed in Nigeria because they don’t go by any name. Mohammed who made this known in an interview on AIT’s Kaakaki programme on Wednesday said proscribing the bandits is not what really matters but how they are treated. 5. President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor, has said Igbo must regain their rightful position in Nigeria as it was, during the first republic. He insisted that his administration would do everything possible to ensure that Ndigbo regain their lost glory. 6. The House of Representatives yesterday, rejected a motion praying the House to obtain the 2014 national conference and the All Progressives Congress (APC) Committee on True Federalism reports for consideration in the ongoing review of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). 7. The senate, yesterday, urged the 36 governors to implement the 2018 Federal Government’s National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) in a bid to curb the conflict between farmers and herders across the country. This is as the senators expressed divergent views on activities of herdsmen and other criminal elements in the country. 8. A few hours after the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, ordered the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to unfreeze the bank accounts of 20 EndSARS promoters, Rinu Oduala, one of the youths representatives in the Lagos Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS Related Abuses, has threatened legal action against the apex bank. 9. The Federal Executive Council at its meeting on Wednesday approved a new Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy for Nigeria, for the period of 2020 to 2023. The strategy allows the government to borrow more from domestic sources. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 1,131 new cases of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The total confirmed cases in the country now stands at 142,578.