The Department of State Services (DSS) has denied arresting the Media Aide to Governor Ganduje of Kano State, Salihu Tanko Yakasai over his comments against the government of President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. Salihu Tanko-Yakasai, had called on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to either deal with bandits in the country or resign. A report then emerged on Saturday that he has been arrested. But the DSS State Director, Muhammad Alhassan told DAILY POST that, “we have not arrested or even invited Salihu, don’t forget he is our friend, sometimes, he advises us on issues of critical Security situations in Kano”. Tanko had on Friday through his Twitter page, while reacting to the abduction of students at Government Girls’ Secondary School, Jangebe in Talata Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State, said “the fact that the development comes about a week after some schoolboys were also abducted by bandits in Kagara, Niger State, shows the government has failed its primarily responsibility.” He said the All Progressives Congress-led government had failed Nigerians, noting that it cannot continue to lament when tragedy occurs without taking any action to prevent a repeat. He wrote on Twitter: “Clearly, we as APC government, at all levels, have failed Nigerians in the number 1 duty we were elected to do which is to secure lives & properties. Not a single day goes by without some sort of insecurity in this land. This is a shame! Deal with terrorists decisively or resign. “Each time another tragedy happens, we lament, condemn, create hashtag, the govt pretends to do something, no concrete steps to prevent reoccurrence, and then we repeat the process. To what end? Where are those saddled with the responsibility? “Just last week, it was #freekagaraboys, today we have a new hashtag #RescueJangebeGirls, who knows tomorrow what hashtag we will come up with? Perhaps one for ourselves when we get caught up in one of these daring attacks. This is sad & heartbreaking; I feel helpless & hopeless.” Shortly after this comments, Salihu Tanko Yakasai went under, and his whereabouts according to his friends could not be ascertained, resulting to many insinuating that the DSS must have whisked him away.