The federal government has been urged to address the economic and security challenge facing the country, to ensure that the mental stability of the people is optimal. The Country Director, Global Peace Foundation in Nigeria, Rev. Joseph John Hayab, while addressing youth on ‘Mental Stability’ in Kaduna on Saturday, said the present challenges facing Nigeria calls for government attention. He, however, appealed to Nigerians to see themselves as members of the same family created by God. “We should in all circumstances be our brother keepers so that together we move forward as a people in the same land.” Rev. Hayab enjoined the youth not to do anything detrimental to their future but called on them to strive at all times to engage themselves in profitable ventures that would earn them a better living tomorrow. “Instead of complaining every day, as youths, you should know that you are blessed with special talents by God that shouldn’t be wasted but should be put into proper use that will be beneficial in the future.” The Country Director enjoined youths to see the lack of jobs in the country as an opportunity to initiate things that would make the society to look for their services at all times instead of engaging in social vices. The National President, Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, SOKAPU, Mr Jonathan Asake, lamented the situation in Nigeria, saying that urgent action needs to be taken to address them. He observed that so many Nigerians have been displaced following insecurity in some parts of the country, pointing out that many Nigerians are suffering from all manners of instability because of the torment they are passing through in their fatherland. Earlier, the convener of the programme, in collaboration with the Global Peace Foundation in Nigeria, Tabitha Michael Kogi, observed that the topic, “Mental stability” is based on the depression Nigerians, especially the youth have found themselves, saying that something by government and all stakeholders needs to be done to ensure a violence-free society.