A man in the Adamawa State capital, Yola, has carried out a dramatic act of stabbing his ex-lover in a courtroom over money and then attempted to escape from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) officials by jumping down from their two-storyed building. The man, Enoch Adamu, had inflicted knife cuts on his lover, Ashini Hosea, in the premises of the Criminal Area Court II, Yola, and left her in pain. While Ashini Hosea was rushed to the Federal Medical Center (FMC) in Yola for medical attention, Enoch was apprehended and taken to the CID. In his apparent bid to escape the CID investigators, Enoch was said to have jumped from the staircase of the building of the CID. With the impact of landing on the ground, he became unconscious. He, like Ashini, was rushed to the FMC Yola. Enoch Adamu, identified as a resident of Sangere in Yola South Local Government Area, was said to have stabbed Ashini after a sudden failure of an arrangement to have her refund him N85,000; being expenses he was said to have incurred on her while they were lovers. Counsel to Ashini, Barr. Ibrahim Saidu, had written for a reversal of the earlier arrangement for Ashini to pay Enoch all expenses he made on her, an application which succeeded, to Enoch’s anger. Earlier in his oral application, Barr. Ibrahim told Musa Garta-led Area Court that he was not aware of the terms of settlement about his client agreeing to refund the man’s expenses, neither did he know of any earlier admission of liability by his client to the allegations made by Enoch. He, therefore, prayed the court to mention the case afresh, and the court did, upon which Ashini changed her earlier plea and denied liability of all the expenses incurred on her. Immediately after the adjournment of the matter (to March 2, 2021) for commencement of hearing, Enoch walked up to Ashini who was standing outside the courtroom with her counsel Ibrahim, pulled out a knife and stabbed her in the chest and neck three times. He tried to flee the court but was apprehended by police operatives and court officials who handed him to the police CID that whisked him to their office. The entire court journey had started for Enoch on the 4th of this month when he instituted a suit against Ashini on a charge of deceitful marriage, telling the court that he fell in love with Ashini who later accepted his marriage proposal. He said he spent his fortunes, paying a dowry and incurring other expenses totalling N120,000; only for Ashini to tell him later that she was no longer interested in the marriage plan, hence his decision to sue her. It was further gathered that of the N120,000 supposedly spent on Ashini, Ashini had paid back N35,000 before the court process began, remaining the N85,000 now in question.