Rising from an emergency virtual meeting by the National Executive Council, NEC, and its Board of Trustee, BOT, the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, CDHR said it has expelled its former National Vice President, Publicity Secretary, and General Secretary, Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, James Chikwendu and Gerald Katchy over alleged indiscipline and gross misconducts. It added that the former Secretary of the Delta State Branch, Giama Jonathan is also suspended. Other members of the NEC who were also suspended for one year include, Barr. (Mr.) Violet Ekumakama, the Legal Adviser,Ayuba Musa, the Internal Auditor. This is contained in a communiqué signed by Ekine, Peter Henry, Esq, National Publicity Secretary, CDHR. Part of the communiqué read,”That Roy Michael Olokungboye, former Chairman of the Lagos State branch should be and is accordingly suspended from CDHR for two (2) years.” The CDHR also reprimanded Comrade Israel Joe and Harrison Itulua of the Delta State Branch to maintain decorum. The CDHR promptly elected new officers to fill the vacant positions following the expulsion of the former officers. Those elected into offices are: Comrade Ade Ikuesan, elected as the current Vice President, Comrade Ekine Peter Henry elected as the current Publicity Secretary, Comrade Princewill Hilary Akpakpan elected as the current Legal Adviser, Comrade Atahiru Ibrahim, who was Assistant General Secretary was elected as the General Secretary. But a counter communiqué issued over the weekend by James Chikwendu, factional National General Secretary, announced the suspension of the National President, Dr. Osagie Obayuwana from office over reasons that were not clear at the time of this report. However, in a swift reaction, CDHR National President, Dr. Osagie Obayuwana debunked his suspension by the Taiga-led faction. He said,”Where is the query that was issued to Dr Obayuwana? Where’s the report of the investigation committee? Where are the minutes of the meeting that considered the report? Can NEC ratify what does not exist legally? Who and who attended the so-called NEC meeting? Did they form a quorum of NEC?”