The Police Command in Nasarawa State has arrested another suspect linked to the killing of Mr Philip Shekwo, the former State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). DAILY POST had reported that the APC chieftain was kidnapped from his residence on Kurikyo road, Lafia, on November 21, 2020, and later killed by his abductors. The Nasarawa State’s Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, paraded the suspect on Thursday in Lafia, alongside 27 others arrested for various criminal offences in the State. Longe stated that the suspect, a 30-year-old man, was arrested on February 14, from Awe, following credible intelligence. According to him, the sum of N450,000 believed to be ransom collected from a kidnap victim from Taraba State was recovered from the suspect. He explained that the suspect and four others were on the police watch-list in connection with the killing of Shekwo. The CP said that the arrest brought to four, the number of suspects linked to the crime, adding that the Police was closing in on the fifth suspect. Longe also paraded 27 other suspects arrested for various criminal offences, including armed robbery, kidnapping and cultism across the State. He mentioned items recovered from the suspects to include N1, 050 million cash, four vehicles, a motorcycle, 32 live ammunition and seven firearms. Longe warned all criminal elements in Nasarawa to desist, stressing that the Police wouldn’t relent in mobilising all resources at its disposal to confront them. The CP called for the support of all stakeholders for effective policing of the State. Meanwhile, Longe also inaugurated Operation Puff Adder II, to tackle cases of kidnapping and banditry in the State. The CP said that the operation comprised 158 personnel drawn from the Police Mobile Force, Special Forces and Counter-Terrorism units of the command. Longe said the personnel would be deployed to five strategic locations in the State, and that they had been well trained and equipped to tackle all forms of security challenges in the State.