Former Acting National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, has warned that the insecurity problem confronting Nigeria presently may boomerang. He explained that if Nigeria’s security problem is not tackled seriously, the country may cease to exist. Answering questions from newsmen at a media parley on his 70th birthday, in Ilorin, on Wednesday, Baraje, also questioned the true identity of the bandits and insurgents rampaging the troubled geopolitical zones of the country. He declared that the bandits and insurgents “Are not our real Fulanis, but invaders from our neighbouring countries sponsored by frustrated Nigerian politicians who are desperate for political power at all cost.” The PDP Chieftain cautioned desperate politicians behind the insecurity problem in the country not to throw Nigeria into a war-torn nation like Sudan and Rwanda among others. He defended the setting up of security outfits in some parts of the country, such as Amotekun and others, saying ” there is nothing wrong in people putting in place their own security outfits when their lives are threatened.” On moves by some governors’ of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to woo former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of APC, the PDP leader, said their action will not constitute any threat to the opposition party because “Jonathan is a thorough personality who knows what to do at the appropriate time.” Speaking on zoning in the PDP, the former chairman asked Nigerians to be patient as the party has constituted a committee which is presently working on it, as zoning remains a cardinal principle of the party. On the crisis within the PDP, Baraje, described it as normal in a democracy, saying, with the reconciliation committee headed by the former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, the issues affecting the party would be resolved amicably soon. Commenting on his relationship with Saraki, he said ” It is not a kind of master-servant relationship, but Dr Saraki remains my boss, leader and brother, it is a multi-dimensional relationship. “I was a civil servant when he became the governor of Kwara state and he treats me like a senior brother,” he added.