The recent crisis that engulfed Shasha Market in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital is causing scarcity of perishable goods in the ancient city, DAILY POST investigation has revealed. The scarcity has also led to the increment in prices of perishable goods. DAILY POST recalls that Shasha Market, which is the major market for perishable goods like pepper, onions, tomatoes and other food ingredients in Ibadan, was penultimate Friday engulfed with crisis. The market located in Akinyele local government area of Oyo State, has been in existence for over three decades. Majority of those who sell tomatoes, pepper and onions at retail prices in some parts of Ibadan such as Opopo-Yeosa, Ita-Merin, Sango and Oje buy at wholesale from Shasha Market. Though checks by DAILY POST revealed that some of the sellers of perishable goods have temporarily relocated to an open place at Bodija market, prices have skyrocketed. DAILY POST investigation revealed that a size of tomato that usually goes for two thousand naira before the crisis is now sold at the rate of four thousand naira. The same scenario was observed by our correspondent at the temporary space occupied by those who sell onions and pepper. An Ibadan indigene, identified as Mr. Daramola, told our correspondent at the weekend that, “I grew up to know the Shasha Market. When we were young, my mother usually went to Shasha to buy pepper and sell at Opopo-Yeosa. She will leave around 5.am even before we wake up. “She is not the only one, the women who sell at Opopo-Yeosa, Ita-Merin and other markets usually go there to buy things. I am talking about 80s, over thirty years ago and the market has been in existence before then.” A civil servant who spoke with our correspondent at the weekend noted that the increment was a result of the crisis which led to the closure of the market. “Things have gone up now. Since last Friday, the prices of perishable goods have increased. I bought this thing last week at the rate of N100, they told me that it is N150 now. Just last week. “You see, it is because of the crisis, some Hausa said that they are going back. They are the ones bringing these things, the market is closed, where will they sell it? Those perishable goods are scarce now.” A sociologist at the University of Ibadan, Mr. Saheed Isiaka said that the retail price of perishable goods in his area has increased. He said, “Yes, I noticed it, though I have not been to Bodija market to see the differences, but buying tomatoes and the likes from retailers in my area took a drastic turn last Friday evening.”