Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Federal Executive Council, FEC Wednesday, approved the establishment of 20 new private universities across Nigeria. The institution will be given provisional licenses to run for three years while the ministry monitors and evaluates their growth. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari has reportedly asked the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu to hand over. Adamu whose tenure elapsed on Monday, has not been able to officially hand over duty as no new IGP has been announced. 3. The Department of State Services (DSS), on Wednesday, warned against plans by some Nigerians to launch ethnoreligious violence in the country. According to the DSS, the targeted states include Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Plateau, Rivers, Oyo, Lagos and parts of South East. 4.The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, yesterday, reacted to the alarm raised by the Department of State Security Service over an alleged plot by some Nigerians to launch ethnoreligious violence in some parts of the country. CAN asked the DSS and other security agencies to wake up to their responsibilities. 4. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has refuted claims that it is planning to field former President, Goodluck Jonathan as its presidential candidate in 2023. Recall that there have been rumours that some Northern APC Governors had during a visit intimated Jonathan of a plan to give him the party’s ticket in 2023. 5. The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike on Wednesday, said the next president of Nigeria will spend his tenure fixing the ethnic, religious and socio-economic problems created by president Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and the All Progressives Congress (APC). 6. A member of the Oodua Peoples Congress, OPC, identified as Daniel Adejuyigbe has been killed by bandits suspected to be kidnappers in Iju community, Akure North Local Government Area of the Ondo State. 7. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday said the February 2, 2019 helicopter crash in Kabba, Kogi State would have led to mourning, if not for God’s intervention. Two years after the incident, which nearly took his life and those of 11 others, the Vice-President thanked God for what he called a day of victory and thanksgiving. 8. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Authority of Heads of State and Government, has thrown its weight behind Nigeria’s quest to head the African Union (AU) Commission for Political Affairs, Peace and Security. This was contained in a communique issued at the end of the just concluded extra ordinary session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government chaired by President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo. 9. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in collaboration with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) have activated a short code – “6232” for verification of information on COVID-19. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 1,138 fresh COVID-19 cases in the country. The new cases bring the total number of confirmed infection in the country to 134,690.