The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has flagged-off a ministerial action against traffic violation in the FCT, a measure that is intended to ensure compliance with all traffic rules and regulations by road users. Bello performed the task at a brief event held at the major traffic intersection of Ahmadu Bello Way by Ralph Shodeinde Street at the Central Business District of Abuja. His Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, made this known in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. He also lamented that as the population of the city expanded, it was observed that many road users did not understand many traffic rules and regulations and invariably put their lives and the lives of other road users in jeopardy. The Minister said, “as the city of Abuja continues to grow, we have noticed so many people coming into the city from areas where there are no traffic lights, don’t seem to understand the difference between green, amber and red and don’t seem to understand also that the moment you violate these simple three coloured lights, you are putting your life and the life of the other person in danger and we have sadly seen instances where lives have been lost at intersections like this one. “So, this is something that has been of great concern to me and the Corps Marshal and the Commissioner of Police and the people in our health facilities because each time there is an accident, our system gets overstretched.” Malam Bello also expressed appreciation to the Federal Road Safety Corps, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and the Nigeria Police for keying into the Ministerial Action Against Traffic Violation and pledging their commitment to its success. He said, “All agencies have agreed to key into the system of making sure that every road user follows what you see at intersections, whether they are Zebra Crossings or whether they are traffic lights. “I’m very happy with the support of the men and women of the FRSC, the Nigerian Police, the NSCDC and the FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services. Their actions will involve the prosecution of offenders and impoundment of vehicles because the life of every citizen of Abuja matters to all of us.” Bello also appealed for the cooperation of residents of the FCT, saying that “a mega city like Abuja cannot be run if there is indiscipline on the road.” He revealed that a committee of residents who have a passion for road safety and the protection of lives would be formed to participate in advocacy and public enlightenment activities to ensure the success of the action.