Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) yesterday, dragged President Muhammadu Buhari to court over tenure elongation for the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu. 2. The Police have dispatched teams of operatives along the Lekki corridor ahead of Saturday’s End SARS protest at the toll gate. The call for Saturday’s protest commenced after the 9-member Lagos Panel of Inquiry approved the reopening of the toll plaza. 3. The Federal Government has stated that the meeting it held Thursday with the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities and the Non- Academic Staff Union of Universities and Allied Institutions yielded fruits. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, said agreements were reached by both parties. 4. The Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, has faulted the statement made by his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, which supports the free movement of herders with AK-47 rifles. 5. The remains of first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande was interred yesterday as more prominent Nigerians continued to pay glowing tributes in loving memory of the elder statesman who died on Thursday, aged 91. 6. Three persons have been feared dead and seven trucks vandalised when Yoruba and Hausa youths clashed at the popular Shasha in Ibadan, Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. The crisis reportedly began on Thursday afternoon when a man said to have hailed from Niger Republic had altercations with a pregnant woman in front of her shop. 7. The Ondo State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun, has accused herdsmen occupying the state’s forest reserves of stockpiling heavy arms and ammunition with the aim of attacking and overrunning the entire state. This is even as two persons, a farmer and a vigilante were killed by the suspected herdsmen at Ago Sanusi village in Owo Local Government Area of the State. 8. Former Governor of Enugu State, Mr. Sullivan Chime yesterday described the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a political party without national leadership. Chime who was the leader of PDP for eight years when he was governor of the state before joining the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2017, said the time has come for the people of the state to join the ruling national party, APC. 9. Influential Islamic cleric, Sheik Abubakar Gumi, has disclosed that bandits operating in the northern states forests are planning to acquire anti-aircraft missiles to repeal attacks by the military. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 1,005 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria, bringing the total number of recorded infections in the country to 144,521.