Former Arsenal and England midfielder, Paul Merson has labelled Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham as the worst team to watch in the Premier League at the moment. Merson, a Sky Sports pundit stated this following Tottenham’s 1-0 home loss to Chelsea on Thursday. Mourinho’s side who occupied the Premier League top spot in December have rapidly fallen away and are now 14 points behind league leaders, Manchester City. The north London side is eight on the table and 7 points away from 4th place with the pressure cranking up on Mourinho. And Merson questions Mourinho’s style of play and whether the Portuguese gaffer can turn things around at the club. “Some Tottenham fans will see this, while some might think I’m being harsh, but Tottenham are the worst team in the Premier League to watch, at the moment,” he said on Sky Sports. According to the former England International, even bottom-table Sheffield United with only two wins the league went to Manchester the other week and did not play defensively as Mourinho’s Tottenham did at home. Speaking further, Merson noted that even Fulham have not got the talent in Tottenham’s display but had tried to have a go at Leicester City. “Thursday evening’s game, the first half, for a Tottenham fan was embarrassing. It was embarrassing at the highest level. I sat and watched, and I could not believe what I was watching. It is mind-blowing what Jose Mourinho must be saying to those players,” he added. He mocked the former Chelsea, Real Madrid and Manchester United boss for saying that his side deserved more for their second-half display during the game and for telling referee Andre Marriner that he did not like his (Marriner) performance despite him being ‘one of the best’ officials in the Premier League. “They are playing against Chelsea and although Thomas Tuchel has turned things around, it’s not a free-flowing football team. It’s not a team that’s going to score six or seven goals against you. Timo Werner is a good player, who hasn’t got going yet. “Spurs are playing against a centre-forward in Werner who has got one goal against Morecambe in his last 18 games in all competitions and they are still sitting 10-men behind the ball,” the former midfielder mocked. A first-half spot-kick converted by Jorginho, after Eric Dier brought down Timo Werner, was all Thomas Tuchel’s Blues needed to claim all three points against Mourinho’s struggling Spurs. Tottenham will face Sam Allardyce’ West Brom on Sunday in their next Premier League.