The Nigerian Army has handed over four suspected criminals arrested by members of the Cross River State Security outfit, Akpakwu, to the Nigerian Police for prosecution. The suspects are Micah Edet, Bassey Udoh, Emmanuel Bassey and Peter Obri. Edet, Udoh and Bassey were arrested by members of the NSCDC attached to Akpakwu on February 8, 2021, for robbing one Mr Akan of the sun of #25,000, while Obri and five others were arrested with a locally made pistol at a rubber plantation in Biase, Biase Local Government Area of Cross River State. While handing over the suspects to the Police, the Commander of the 13 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Brigadier General MA Abdullahi, who was represented by Maj. SN Ikpeme said the arrest followed a trail of eight suspects. “The suspects robbed one Mr. Akan Udoh of the sum of 25,000.00. During the investigation, it was discovered that the compound in question is confirmed to be a black spot with abandoned structure where criminals sleep at night,” he said. “Peter Obri, 25 years was also arrested on January 13, 2021, at Ibiae Rubber plantation with a locally made pistol while attempting to steal palm fruits from the plantation,” he said, adding that the suspects have been handed over to the Police Command for further investigation and prosecution. One of the suspects, Peter Obri, said he was not aware that he was going to the plantation for robbery and only accompanied his friend there. Obri said, “A friend of mine asked me to accompany him to carry something he kept, and on our way, he gave me this locally made pistol. “I asked him what he wanted to use this for and he said just hold it for me; when we got there, we did not see the banga and unknown to us the army in the company laid ambush for us and caught me in the process while my friend escaped. “I am an okada rider by profession, and I don’t know why he asked me to hold the pistol for him.” It was learnt that the Nigerian Army also uncovered a black spot for criminals in the State. The spot is an abandoned structure along Parliamentary Road in Calabar Municipality where criminals sleep at night.