Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, on Sunday, confirmed that bandits killed 14 persons in Birnin Gwari and five in Kajuru Local Goverment areas of the State. This was contained in a statement on Sunday. He said, “on a sad note, the Kaduna State Government has received reports from security agencies on the killing of 19 citizens in Birnin Gwari and Kajuru local government areas of Kaduna Central Senatorial District. “The citizens were killed by armed bandits at Kutemeshi village in Birnin Gwari and Kujeni village in Kajuru, where several others were left with bullet wounds. Both attacks occurred on Saturday.” The statement further added that, “in Kutemeshi village of Birnin Gwari LGA, the following citizens were killed: Malan Sani Barume, Yahaya Bello, Amadu Dan Korau, Samaila Niga, Jamilu Haruna, Lawal Majiya, Dan Malam Rabo, Dauda Kafinta, Hassan Mai Makani, Bashir Haruna, Lawal Ali, Mu’azu Haruna Mai Unguwa Sa’adu, Harisu Bako. “Some shops were also looted with valuable items carted away. “Some of the injured have been moved to a neighboring State closer to Kutemeshi for urgent medical attention, while others are in transit to an orthopaedic hospital in Kaduna. “So far, only the 14 corpses have been recovered from Kutemeshi. The Kaduna State Government will provide updates on any emerging developments. “In Kujeni village of Kajuru LGA, the attackers burnt several houses, storehouses with foodstuff, warehouses loaded with building materials and a church. The following citizens were killed: Bulus Jatau, Hanatu Emmanuel, Bitrus Tuna, Yohanna Mika, Monday Ayuba. “Those injured include Bulus Sambayi and Godwin Yakubu.” “Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who has been monitoring the security situation at the locations since Saturday morning, expressed sadness over the attacks. The Governor who condoled families that lost their loved ones, offered prayers for the repose of their souls and a speedy recovery for the injured. He further directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to urgently provide relief materials to the affected communities.