Youth representatives at the Lagos Judicial Panel, Rinuola Oduola (Rinu) has given reasons they rejected the approval for reopening of Lekki Toll Gate. DAILY POST had reported that the panel, probing the alleged killing of End SARS protesters at the Toll Gate, on Saturday, approved the reopening of the Toll plaza and returned control to its owners, the Lekki Concession Company (LCC). However, some members of the panel, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, alongside other three members of the panel, Patience Udoh (representing civil society), Rinuola Oduola and Temitope Majekodunmi (representing the youths) rejected the repossession and the reopening of the Lekki toll plaza. Rinu on her Twitter page, said the approval cannot stand as a result of LCC’s inability to provide access to their CCTV servers for the forensic expert employed by the panel to authenticate the footage. She noted that justice must be served and the decision cannot stand until investigation into the Lekki Toll Gate incident is concluded. “Let it be known that today, I and @TemiOanu, dissented to the reopening of the Lekki Toll Gate on the Lagos Panel. “This, as a result of LCC inability to provide access to their CCTV servers for the forensic expert employed by the panel to authenticate the footage they submitted “We are of the view that the investigations into the Lekki Toll Gate incidence have barely begun, and so the Lekki Toll Gate should remain shut until full investigations are concluded by the Panel,” she said. Rinu stressed that the ruling cannot hold because “a quorum was not formed with the youth representatives absent.” In a Twitter thread, she wrote: “The ruling that Lekki Toll Gate should be reopened cannot hold, as a quorum wasn’t formed today with the youth representatives absent. “It is also pertinent to note that 5 of 9 can’t form a proper quorum. You should also be noted that the ruling did not include our dissenting opinions as members of the panel. “This stand is also taken by Ebun Adegboruwa SAN and Ms. Patience Udoh, members of the Civil society group.” “Five other members of the panel held the view that the Toll Gate should be allowed to reopen. LCC has questions to answer. We remain committed to getting justice,” her tweet added.