The Zamfara State Council of Chiefs has blamed the federal government for security lapses that caused the abduction of over 300 schoolgirls in Jangebe district, Talata-Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State. This was disclosed by the Chairman, Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Attahiu Ahmed Muhammad when all the monarchs gathered at the chamber of the Government House in Gusau to register their sympathy over the abduction of the over 300 schoolgirls in the state. According to the monarchs, security of lives and property of every Nigerian rests in the hands of the federal government and not the responsibility of the state governments. “The security of lives and properties wholly rests in the hands of the federal government and not state governments. The state governments only give support and logistics to the security operatives in states,” he lamented. The monarch noted that the schoolgirls were abducted following inadequate security, saying that if there had been enough security network, the bandits wouldn’t have succeeded. Alhaji Muhammad noted that those responsible for causing sleepless nights to thousands as a result of banditry and terror attacks would not go unpunished, pointing out that their sins would soon find them out. “Any act of inhumanity meted against human must be redressed if not now definitely later, if not by man certainly by God because God does not redress the law of cause and effects.” Responding, Governor Matawalle explained that this is not the period to fix blames, saying that what matters most was the rescue of the schoolgirls from the bandits. The Governor explained that the security operatives were on top of the issue to ensure that the schoolgirls are rescued safely and bring the perpetrators to book and make them to face the full wrath of the law. Matawalle assured that his administration would not suspend dialogue and negotiations with the bandits, saying that peace accord and reconciliation process remain the best option in this regard.