The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested eight suspects and recovered 282.243 kg of Cannabis Sativa while raiding some drug spots in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). FCT Commander of NDLEA Lawan Hamisu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Abuja that five of the suspects were found with exhibits. Hamisu said three others were arrested at the scene of the crime and different quantities of Cannabis Sativa recovered during the raiding. One man, identified as Nazeer escaped leaving 19.6 kilogrammes of Cannabis behind. He noted that the three suspects arrested at the crime scene were being profiled as no drugs were found on them, saying that they would be put on the watch list to determine the next action against them. “On Feb. 3, 2021, we set out to revisit Karu Abattoir, Gwarimpa by 1st Avenue, Dawaki behind News Engineering Baban bola Pantaker Area, Police Signpost by Dutse Makaranta and Fo1 Kubwa extension. “Zubairu Mohammed and Umar Sani were arrested at Dawaki with 2.8 grammes and 100 grammes of cannabis Sativa. “Nura Alhassan was arrested at Karu with 12.3 grammes of Cannabis Sativa. Manasseh Christopher was arrested at Gwarimpa with 28.3 grammes of Cannabis Sativa. “Hamza Adamu was arrested at Duste Makaranta with 253.5 kilogrammes of Cannabis Sativa. However, Nazeer was found with 19.6 kilogrammes of Cannabis Sativa recovered at FO1 by Kubwa extension but escaped and the search for him is on,” NAN quoted him as saying. Hamisu said that the agency’s outing to Tomato market, Dei-Dei, Kasuwan Dere in Gwagwalada as well Kuchin-goro/Ruga by city gate recorded minimal success where the operatives seized other quantities of Cannabis Sativa. He noted that those whose case has been sustained have been charged accordingly, saying that others found with smaller quantities and found to be users or first offenders were referred for appropriate counselling. He added that the agency would be filing charges on two suspects while three others may be referred for counselling as the search of the escaped suspect continues