The Chairman, Bauchi State Council of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Comrade Umar Sa’idu, on Thursday, called on the Federal Government to support the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) in order for it to open more training centres in the 36 states of the country. Umar made the call when he received ITF officials who paid him a courtesy visit at the NUJ Press Centre in Bauchi, saying that the call became imperative in view of the fact the fund was a major component of Nigeria’ development drive. According to him, ITF was into training of staff of organizations, government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) as well as parastatals. He declared that the three ITF training centres in the country were inadequate, submitting that they were not enough to cover the entire country. “I am aware that some organizations do patronize the services of ITF, especially the Office of the Head of Civil Service here in the state. “The ITF has services that cut across all professional areas and on our part as the NUJ, we are ready to partner with this laudable organization. “The three skill ITF training centres in the country, including the FCT are grossly inadequate, considering the enormous task of the organization. These centres cannot cover the entire state within a short time,” the NUJ chairman said. While noting that the Fund is facing some challenges, Sa’idu emphasised the need by the Federal Government to give ITF more support in view of the fact that training is very vital. “I know you are facing a lot of challenges, particularly the issue of lack of facilities and that is not your making. We are appealing to the federal government to step in and support the ITF.” Umar said that training of Nigerians was very paramount, considering the fact that job opportunities were limited in the country. Earlier speaking, the State Area Manager of ITF, Mr Richard A.Baba, said that they were on the courtesy visit to intimate the NUJ of ITF’s activities as well as the services it rendered to individuals, organizations and agencies in the country. He informed that the Fund currently had 40 area offices and three training centres in the country, adding that the organization had trained thousands of Nigerians on different sectors of development.