A renowned United Nations (UN) and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) consultant on education and development, Prof Gregory Ibe, has commended the Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu over the ongoing Infrastructural development in the State. The Professor, who is also the Chancellor of Gregory University Uturu and Chairman Proprietors of Private Universities in Nigeria, in a statement made available yo DAILY POST praised the Governor for embarking on projects that impact positively on the lives of Abians. “I want to commend my brother and friend Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for evolving a unique style of development that seeks to achieve a perfect blend of human capital advancement and infrastructural transformation. “He realized the derivable benefits of increasing the capacity of the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMSE), hence he launched and sustained the promotion of locally made goods and services. “The industrialization blueprint which involves training and equipping local artisans with improved production techniques has become a potent trigger to the economic development of the state. “Also, by Implementing the policy of constructing a network of solid roads especially in Aba, the Governor has attracted more local and foreign investments to our state. “I am, therefore, not surprised that the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) recently rated our state as the third destination of choice for investors, next only to Lagos and Abuja and this is the beginning of greater things yet to happen in our state,” he said. The Professor further urged citizens of the State to reciprocate the gesture by handling public infrastructure with care. “I, therefore, implore our people to partner the government by ensuring the longevity of every public infrastructure built by this administration. “Through locally raised neighborhood sanitation, security vigilante groups and ensuring frequent scooping of drainages for free flow of water. “These unfortunate acts of lawlessness have continued to plague our development and should be stopped by our people. “Let’s help the government to help us, by owning these costly public infrastructure, to ensure they serve us longer”, he added.