Following President Muhammadu Buhari’s request to the Nigerian Senate seeking confirmation of the newly appointed ex-Service Chiefs, Senate on Wednesday commenced the process. The request was read on the floor of Senate Chambers by the Deputy Leader, Senator Ajayi Boroffice, stating that the confirmation was in line with the provision of Section 171(1) of the Armed Forces Act, 2004. He said: “That the Senate do consider the request of Mr. President C-in-C on the confirmation of the following persons for appointment as Chief of Defence Staff and Service Chiefs. They are: 1. Major General Lucky Eluonye (Chief of Defence Staff)
2. Major General Ibrahim Attahiru (Chief of Army Staff)
3. Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo (Chief of Naval Staff)
4. Air Vice Marshal Isiaka O. Amao (Chief of Staff). Similarly, request for confirmation of immediate past Service Chiefs as non-career ambassadors was also deliberated. The request, which was read by the Deputy Leader, pointed out that their nomination was in tandem with Section 171(1) (2)(c) and subsection 4 of 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The motion was however reluctantly seconded by the Senate Minority leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe before it was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs which was asked to give accelerated hearing and revert in two weeks time. The ex-Service Chiefs nominated as non-career ambassadors are: 1. General Abayomi G. Olonisakin (Rtd) – Ekiti
2. Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai (Rtd) – Borno
3. Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete E. Ibas (Rtd) – Cross River
4. Air Vice Marshal Sadique B. Abubakar (Rtd)
5. Air Vice Marshal Muhammad S. Usman (Rtd) – Kano Moreso, the Fiscal Responsibility Commission was considered based on request for confirmation of its Chairman nominee by President Muhammadu Buhari. Deputy Senate leader, Senator Ajayi Boroffice who read the request on behalf of the Leader sought the cooperation of Senators, stating that the nomination was in line with the Act that set up the Commission. He said: “That the Senate do consider the request of Mr President C-in-C on the confirmation of the nomination of Barr. Victor Chinemerem Muruako for appointment as Chairman, Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) in accordance with the provision of Section 5(3) of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. Reacting to the motions, Senate President. Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan urged all the appropriate Committees to expeditiously look into the requests and make recommendations for Senate’s decision in two weeks time.