The National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno says President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is deeply concerned about the spate of insecurity in Nigeria. The retired General, however, assured that the federal government is taking major steps to strengthen the capacity of security agencies, upgrade the architecture and implement a multi-pronged strategy that involves political, humanitarian, economic and security measures. A statement by the NSA’s office made available to DAILY POST on Saturday disclosed that Monguno convened a meeting of the General Security Appraisal Committee (GSAC). In attendance were Service Chiefs, Heads of Law Enforcement, Security and Intelligence Agencies. They discussed kidnapping, terrorism, banditry, armed robbery and the consequences on citizens’ lives and property. The meeting resolved to strengthen interagency coordination, stakeholders’ engagement and consultation in order to find a lasting solution to multiple security threats. “The NSA believes that addressing these threats call for the deployment of all national assets, including the cooperation of all Nigerians”, the statement read. It said Monguno has commenced a “Whole-of-Government and Whole-of-Society” approach to address criminal activities nationwide. The strategy will bring on board the Legislature, Judiciary, Ministries and Departments, States and Local Governments, the Civil Society and other key stakeholders. Monguno will lead a delegation of security chiefs to parleys with Governors, traditional and religious leaders, lawmakers, non-governmental, youth and women organisations. This is expected to provide direct assessment of the security situation, generate local feedback and recommendations, encourage geo-political synchronisation of efforts among states and create a pathway to lasting peace and general safety. The first of the town hall meetings will be held in Kaduna on Monday, February 15, with all Governors in North-West. “The federal government is committed to working with the States and community leaders to strengthen peace, security and development in all parts of the country”, the NSA assured.