A 10-year-old boy, who was one of the survivors of the recent attack on Ebute Igbooro by suspected herdsmen have been paralyzed as a result of the bullets fired into his head. DAILY POST reported earlier that Ebute Igbooro, a community in Yewa North Local Government Area, was attacked at night by men suspected to be herdsmen. While four persons were reportedly killed, many others, including children sustained injuries, even as houses were set on fire. Speaking about the 10-year-old survivor, a social media influencer, Bimbo Cash, narrated how the boy has been bedridden since the incident. It was said that the boy’s stepmother and siblings were hacked to death by the attackers. According to her, the boy needs to undergo surgery, adding that about eight bullets are yet to be removed from his head. She said: “I was at a hospital in Ogun State when the matron dragged me to see a 10-year-old boy shot in the head by Fulani herdsmen. He needs to undergo surgery. 8 pellets (are) still logged in his head and he was in pain. They hacked his step mom to death, killed his siblings, 8 months baby and shot his father and several others. His father was taken to another hospital. “These guys invaded the Igbooro community at night, moved from one house to another, shooting and macheting people. They killed an 80-year-old. “He needs to be operated on as soon as the deposit is made. Government is supposed to take responsibility for this care. I’m angry that the boy is laying there without hope. “The boy’s right arm and right leg are paralyzed already, which means the bullets in the brain are affecting other parts of his body,” she explained. Meanwhile, it was gathered the Ogun state government is now on top of the situation. Video: I was at a hospital in Ogun state when the matron dragged me to see a 10 year old boy shot in the head by Fulani herdsmen. He needs to undergo surgery, 8 pellets still logged in his head and was in pains . They hacked his step mom to death , killed his siblings, 8 months baby and pic.twitter.com/XiPrPD3lFb — Award Winning Wife #GodWin (@bimbo_cash) February 22, 2021  Ogun herdsmen killings: Abiodun rejected Sunday Igboho’s help with no better idea - PDP Woman abducted by herdsmen found dead in Ogun Again, herdsmen kill four, burn houses in Ogun