A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Ebonyi State, Mr. Friday Nworie has dragged the Mai Mana Buni-led APC National Working Committee to court. Nworie, through his lawyer, Barr. Okoro Nkemakolam, is praying a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja to nullify the dissolution of the Ebonyi State Executive Committee of the Party, in which he served as the secretary. Joined in the suit are the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, the Inspector General of Police, Stanley Okoro and nine others. He sought a declaration “that the conducts of the 1st Defendant through its Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), in the dissolution of the entire state executive committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, was done in contravention of the constitution of the 1st Defendant herein. “A declaration that the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), of the 1st Defendant, has no powers as donated by the constitution of the 1st Defendant, to dissolve the entire state executive committee of the All Progressive Congress(APC) in Ebonyi State and or to appoint the 4th -13th Defendants as members of caretaker committee of the 1st Defendant in Ebonyi State. “An order of this Honourable Court, setting aside, nullifying and invalidating the purported dissolution of the entire executive structure of the All Progressive Congress in Ebonyi State, by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the 1st Defendant, as same was ultra vires the powers of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the 1st Defendant, and therefore unconstitutional, unlawful, void and of no effect whatsoever. “An order of this Honourable Court, setting aside, nullifying and invalidating the purported appointment of the 4th – 12th Defendants as members of the caretaker committee of the 1st Defendant, in Ebonyi State. “An order of this Honourable Court, setting aside, nullifying and invalidating all steps, actions, decisions, resolutions, appointments made or taken in any form whatsoever, by the 4th -12th Defendants, pursuant to their purported appointments as members of the caretaker committee of the 1st Defendant in Ebonyi State. “An order of this Honourable Court, reinstating the Plaintiff, as the Secretary, to the 1st Defendant in Ebonyi Local Government Area, of Ebonyi State. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st , 2nd and 3rd Defendants from recognizing the 4th – 12th Defendants as officers of the All Progressive Congress in Ebonyi State in whatever form.” Nworie asked the court to decide “whether by a calm reading and interpretation of Articles 2, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3,17iv,18 and 21 of the constitution of the All Progressive Congress (APC), the dissolution of the entire executive committee party structure in Ebonyi State, by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee(CECPC) of the 1st Defendant herein, was done in compliance with the constitution of the 1st Defendant herein.”