Senate Chief Whip and former Governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Monday, revalidated his membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The revalidation exercise was carried out at Senator Orji Kalu’s Igbere Ward A, in Bende Local Government Area of the State and was witnessed by the Abia APC National Registration and Revalidation committee, chaired by Ambassador Bala Mohammed Maigairi. The State, Local government and ward executives members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), were also on ground during the revalidation exercise at Igbere Bende. Speaking after revalidating his membership of APC, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu commended the party leadership for their commitment to this exercise. According to him, the democratic process was important to the party in its quest to deliver its mandate of good governance to all Nigerians. He urged all well meaning Nigerians to join the progressive party as this will avail them more opportunities to play a part in the decision making process of the nation. In related development, 2015 Gubernatorial Candidate of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in Abia State, and Executive Commissioner in PenCom, Dr. Nyerere Anyim, has also revalidated his membership of the party. Anyim flanked by his wife, revalidated at his Agburuike electoral ward, Obingwa local government area and was witnessed by the State APC Chairman, Hon Donatus Nwankpa and other executive members of the party. Meanwhile, the Member representing Bende federal constituency of Abia State and the House of Representatives spokesman, Hon Benjamin Kalu, has lamented the scarcity of the registration and revalidation materials in Bende Local Government Area of the State. Rep Kalu urged the party leadership to provide enough materials to contain the large number of Abia populaces According to him “the materials for the registration exercise in Bende is very small, the people who want to register and revalidate their membership in Bende are more bigger than the materials at hand. “I want to seize this opportunity to call on all the party leaders to provide more materials for Nigerians across their wards, this will help millions of Nigerians who seek to join the progressives train to do so.” Rep Kalu thanked the party leadership in Abia State for the internal peace in the party.