Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to seek help from Israel, the United States and other countries in the fight against insurgency, kidnapping, banditry, and other crimes in Nigeria. 2. Suspected gunmen have kidnapped the Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Taraba State chapter, Peter Jediel. Jediel was kidnapped at his residence in Sunkani, the headquarters of Ardo-Kola Local Government Area. 3. The Osun State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Irepodun and Orolu Local Government Areas of the State, following the community crisis that broke out between Ilobu and Erin-Osun communities on Saturday. 4. A team of police operatives under “Operation Puff Adder” has facilitated the release of five victims abducted behind Namoda Secondary school and Zangon Danbade areas of Kaura Namoda. All the rescued victims were medically treated and debriefed by the police and later reunited with their families. 5. The Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Senator Basheer Mohammed, has disclosed the commission’s plan to repatriate about 4,982 Nigerian refugees in Cameroon. 6. An All Progressive Congress (APC) ward caretaker chairman in Benue State has been reportedly killed by some hoodlums. The deceased, Tersoo Ahu was until his gruesome murder on Sunday, the APC caretaker chairman for Gboko South Council Ward. 7. The Central Bank of Nigeria has clarified that its circular of February 5, 2021 directing financial institutions in the country to close accounts trading on cryptocurrency did not place any new restrictions on the currencies, adding that it had been in force prior to the announcement. The apex bank stated that all banks in the country had earlier been forbidden through CBN’s circular dated January 12, 2017. 8. The Abuja division of the Court of Appeal has affirmed the disqualification of Imo North Senator-elect, Chukwuma Francis Ibezim as candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the December 5, 2020 by-election. 9. Unidentified assassins have murdered a former Imo State chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), N.H Nwankwo Esq. The ex-NBA boss was assassinated in his office on Saturday by unidentified bandits. According to reports, the lawyer went to the office on Saturday and did not return to his residence at School Road, Owerri, the Imo State capital. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 506 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) as Lagos report is conspicuously missing. The development now brings the total number of confirmed infection in the country to 139,748.