Ebonyi State Police Command, Wednesday, said it has arrested two suspected criminals, Amadi Chibuike ‘m’ age 20yrs and Onuha Emeka ‘m’ age 20yrs who are both first year students of Ebonyi State University (EBSU) for allegedly stealing N4.4 million. The commissioner of Police, CP, Aliyu Garba made this known in a statement signed and forwarded to DAILY POST by the police spokesperson, DSP Loveth Odah. The Police said that the suspected criminals used Access Bank Point Of Service, popularly known as (POS) machine to defraud their victims- Mrs. Lillian Anigbogwu of the sum of N3 million and Mr. Alimogwo Chinedu Franklin of the sum N1.4 million, respectively, under false at different locations. Garba noted that the suspected criminals were arrested at Ishieke Market in Ebonyi L.GA of the State. The Statement reads in part: “Ebonyi State Police Command has uncovered a new system used by fraudsters to dispossess innocent citizens of their hard earned money through dubious means. “The syndicates migrate from one state to the other with the same method to defraud the unsuspecting victims after getting personal information, such as account numbers through stolen phones or sim cards. “This method works only with Access Bank Point Of Service, popularly known as (POS) machine after the syndicate has succeeded in getting the victim’s account number. The POS- Operator will generate a code through the process for easy withdrawal of the victim’s fund. “The suspects allegedly defrauded one Mrs Lillian Anigbogwu of the sum of N3 million and Mr. Alimogwo Chinedu Franklin of the sum N1.4 million respectively under false pretence through POS at different locations. “The suspects confessed to the crime and narrated that they are both working for one Victor Adogu ‘m’ age about 22 years, who is a POS Operator at the Institute for Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu State. The suspects further added that they joined the syndicate in December, 2020 with a share of 10% of every amount defrauded from victims.” The commissioner further noted that the suspected criminals have been handed over to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, Enugu zonal office, for further investigation and prosecution. Garba further urged the public to refrain from availing their personal information, particularly Biometric Identification Number (BVN), National Identification Number (NIN), or account number and to also keep the above information away from their Phones or Sim card in order not to fall victim of the fraudulent practice. The commissioner appealed to members of the public to continue to cooperate with the police with credible and timely information on activities of criminal elements in the State.