Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The students and teachers of Government Science College Kagara, Niger State who were abducted by bandits last week, have been released. They were dropped off at different locations on Sunday night. The State government confirmed the development to newsmen in a statement. 2. All passengers abducted by suspected bandits while travelling with the Niger State Transport Agency, NSTA, have been released. The Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani-Bello made the announcement yesterday. 3. A Nigerian Air Force passenger plane crashed just outside Abuja Airport due to engine failure on Sunday, killing all 7 people on board. Air force spokesman, Ibikunle Daramola who confirmed this in a statement on Sunday, said the Beechcraft KingAir B350i aircraft crashed while returning to the Abuja Airport after reporting engine failure en route Minna. 4. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Ibrahim Attahiru, yesterday ordered troops of ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’ to recapture Marte Local Government of Borno State from Boko Haram insurgents in 48 hours. The army Chief gave the order while addressing troops of the Nigerian Army Super camp 9, Dikwa in Borno State. 5. The immediate past Imo State Governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha has been arrested after he dared Governor Hope Uzodimma to reopen the Royal Palm Estate sealed by the State Government. Prior to his arrest, he was accompanied by his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu to break the keys in a bid to recover the estate belonging to his wife, Nkechi. 6. Again, some bandits on Sunday razed a church building and two other houses in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. A statement issued by the State Commissioner for Internal security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the incident. 7. A Butcher at the popular Sapele main market in Delta State, simply identified as Efe, was on Sunday shot dead in the community by unknown gunmen. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for Delta State Command, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the incident on Sunday. 8. Boko Haram, on Sunday killed many members of the Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) during a gun duel between the two groups. A statement by Al Thabat confirmed the killings. 9. The All Progressives Congress, APC, has extended the ongoing registration and revalidation of members till the end of March. APC Director of Organisation, Prof. Al-Mustapha Ussiju Medaner, made this known in a statement on Sunday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 521 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 19 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 152,074.