Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Governors from the SouthWest zone of the country and some first class rulers, yesterday, okayed the decision of the National Economic Council (NEC) for each State in Nigeria to manage its forest. 2. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj Gen Ibrahim Attahiru was in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital yesterday over an attack on two communities in the State by the Boko Haram insurgents on Friday night. 3. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor E. A. Adeboye, yesterday, disowned a list of ‘prayer points’ against Fulani herdsmen, which circulated on social media. He made the clarification via a tweet on his official Twitter page. 4. Senate President Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, blamed some governors for the herders-farmers crisis and the recent clash between traders at Shasa market in Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. Lawan, while speaking with BBC Hausa service on Saturday, said Southwest Governors were inciting violence in their states. 5. Elder statesman, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere and the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, on Saturday berated Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, over his comments indicting South-West governors for the recent mayhem in Sasa community, Ibadan, in the Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. 6. Two brothers residing in the Gwer West Local Government Area of Benue State have reportedly killed each other after a heated argument over the ownership of farmland. The siblings were identified as Iorhemba Adóón and Jima Adóón. 7. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has cautioned political and religious leaders to stop reckless utterances that could lead to war. The Governor gave the warning yesterday at the 2021 Lagos State Interdenominational Divine Service organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). 8. Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has inaugurated a 20-man peacekeeping committee on farmers-herders conflict in Ogun State with a charge on members to look into the remote and immediate causes of the clashes and find lasting solutions to it. 9. The Kano State COVID-19 taskforce technical Committee, has introduced a Home-based care program to reach people in remote areas, as part of efforts to curtail the spread of the pandemic. This was disclosed in a statement from the state Primary Health Care Management Board, signed by its Information Officer, Mr Maikudi Marafa, on Saturday. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 645 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 19 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of recorded cases in the country to 151,553.