Officers of a Tactical Unit in the Rivers State Police Command, Eagle Crack Unit gave themselves away after an alleged shady operation involving students of the University of Port Harcourt. Three undergraduate students of the University of Port Harcourt accused officers of the Eagle Crack Unit of extorting 150,000 Naira over allegation that they were internet fraudsters, ‘Yahoo Boys’. An officer of the E-Crack Unit after the alleged false arrest of the students left his mobile phone in the car. One of the victims who identified himself as Victor, a final year student of Uniport told DAILY POST that he and “his friends went out to get food around past 11pm on Tuesday, the 16th of February 2021 around Rumualogu/Alakahia car wash here in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area when the officers accosted us for a stop and search. “After several arguments, the officers collected our phones and threatened to take us to EFCC or use machetes on us if we refused to provide the money they asked for. “After driving us round some areas, they eventually led us to an ATM where we made a transfer and also withdrew cash to the tune of 120,000 Naira. ‘Luckily for us, one of the officers forgot his phone inside our car.” Meanwhile, Enefa Georgewill of the Rivers Civil Society Organization, RIVSCO, has asked the police authorities to arrest the E-Crack Officers. Georgewill in a statement issued in Port Harcourt said, “As a responsible organization, we advise Victor to gather all his evidence. Upon receipt of all the evidence like the phone, bank statement and the account the money was transferred to, RIVCSO joined Victor to make an official complaint at the police headquarters. We met the PPRO of the command and Victor and his friend made an official written statement at the police headquarters. Spokesperson of the Rivers State Police Command, SP Nnamdi Omoni, has confirmed the incident and assured that all officers involved in the operation would face the law. He said, “the officers involved in the alleged extortion of the 3 university of Port Harcourt students has been identified and known and would be arrested. “The phones the students got from the car after paying that sort of money to the officers has been traced to a police officer. They would be made to pay back the money extorted from the student.” Omoni told newsmen that the new CP, Friday Eboka is committed to tackling issues of corrupt officers.