Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The abducted students of Government Science College, Kagara, in Niger State, were yesterday, released by their abductors. They arrived the government house, Mina on Saturday after weeks in the hands of suspected bandits. 2. Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, on Saturday, sacked his Special Adviser on Media, Salihu Tanko Yakasai. In a statement issued by the Kano State Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, he said Yakasai’s sack was due to his comment that the APC-led government had failed Nigerians over insecurity. 3. The Federal Government yesterday, announced the reopening of the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos State. Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing announced the reopening. 4. The Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, yesterday, ordered the closure of four tertiary institutions in the state. The State Commissioner for Higher Education, Mariya Bunkure, in a statement, said, the closure was due to the level of insecurity ravaging the North and other parts of the country. 5. The Department of State Services, DSS, on Saturday night, confirmed the arrest of Salihu Tanko-Yakasai, a former aide to Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State. This was contained in a statement issued by the DSS spokesman, Peter Afunanya. 6. Some Imo elder statesmen have expressed concern over the face-off between Governor Hope Uzodimma and Senator Rochas Okorocha with a call on citizens not to allow the tension to degenerate into a breakdown of law and order. They made the call in a statement on Saturday. 7. The President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor, yesterday, berated the IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, and his alleged conspirators over their views that have made people to point accusing fingers at Igbos as secessionists. He made the remark while speaking at the grand reception in his honour by Ndigbo in Lagos. 8. Four persons have been reported dead after bandits attacked Kagara in Niger State. This happened barely two weeks after bandits abducted over 300 school children from Government Science College in the same Kagara. 9. A team of military and policemen on Saturday, rescued a bridal train abducted by Boko Haram on Maiduguri-Damaturu highway. The bride and her team were kidnapped by the insurgents on Friday at about 1pm somewhere in Mainok on Damaturu-Maiduguri highway. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 341 fresh cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 20 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This brings the total number of recorded cases in the country since February 2020 to 155,417.