Convener of EndSARS movement and social media activist, Segun Awosanya, also known as Segalink has revealed why he supported the handing over of the Lekki Toll plaza to the Lekki Concession Company LCC. Recall that the panel probing the alleged killing of EndSARS protesters at the toll gate on Saturday approved the reopening of the toll plaza and returned control to its owners, the Lekki Concession Company (LCC). This led to serious backlash from Nigerians who kicked against the reopening of the toll gate due to the fact that justice has not taken its due cause. Segalink was also dragged for supporting the move to reopen the toll gate. Reacting, the social media activists in a post via his Twitter account said that it is not logical to shut down the Lekki toll gate. According to him, since the panel’s forensic team has completed work at the site, there is no need to lock down the toll gate. He also warned those blasting him to be careful and not to fall victim to those misleading them. “It is futile making logical sense when emotions are running wild. Where in the world do you deploy sentiments & injustice to obtain justice? “Those manipulating you presents you with someone to hate and you march on like zombies to throw tantrums. How does granting access for assessment of damage & initiating repairs a vote against the people when the panel’s forensic team are done at the site. “Recall that people work in the establishment too. Imagine locking the whole road under claims of an ongoing investigation without the need to visit. “There are always other routes to ensure justice without becoming the demons we fight. We need not make life harder for others just to prove a point. “Everyone is entitled to fairness, equity & presumption of innocence until proven guilty. Investigation is done, cases are ongoing. “Imagine shutting down police and Army in the name of an ongoing investigation. This is not in the spirit of justice. “Read the ruling and if it errs on the ground of Law, Justice and Equity then we can look into that. Thus, far there’s no such claim. “Think deeply about those misleading you to think you have been betrayed. You’re being used,” he said. 