The Ekiti State government has urged residents not to be apprehensive of taking the COVID-19 vaccine when it arrives in the state. The State Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr. Oyebanji Filani stated this at a community sensitization programme organized by the state Ministry of Health and Human Services and the State Primary Healthcare Development Agency in Oye-Ekiti. Dr. Oyebanji noted that the community engagement programme was to let the citizens at the grassroots know the efforts of the Dr. Kayode Fayemi led administration in the health sector as well as getting feedback from the local communities. Dr. Filani said that the government has commenced renovation of Primary Health Centres and General Hospitals across the state while monthly running grants are given also to enable the health facilities attend to some critical needs. He appealed to the people to embrace the State Health Insurance Scheme to cushion the effect of the high cost of access to quality health. “We want to tell you that this administration has done a lot to curtail the spread of Covid-19 in the state, part of the efforts is giving the various primary and secondary healthcare facilities a facelift. In fact, the government has embarked on the construction and reconstruction of most of the health facilities as well as putting in place the Ekiti Health Insurance Scheme to ensure universal health coverage.” The Commissioner stated. He disclosed that the government has built three Isolation Centres as part of efforts to tackle COVID-19 pandemic and has also employed more medical officers in the health sector to boost the well-being of the people across the state. While appealing to the community to cultivate the habit of good maintenance culture, he called on the participants to let the government know the challenges they confront in the communities across the local government areas. “It is our belief that after this programme, we will have a better understanding of your challenges and strength and at the end, we will have a more improved health system and a better Ekiti.” The Commissioner said. Earlier in her welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health and Human Services, Dr. Folakemi Olomojobi noted that the the meeting became necessary to determine the opinions of the people with regards to their health care. In his response, one of the participants, HRM Oba Adamo Babalola, the Onitaji of Itaji-Ekiti, appreciated the government for its efforts at ensuring a safe and healthy Ekiti state. Other participants including Pastor Samuel Olaoluwa and Chief Christiana Adegboye suggested that the government should look for volunteers to first take the COVID-19 vaccines when it is finally delivered. They called on the government to set up a Local Government Task Force that would enforce compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols and as well monitor the activities of Traditional Birth Attendants in the State. They also want all primary and secondary healthcare facilities in their community to be renovated and furnished with bedding and other essential medical equipment. Participants equally appealed to the State government to enrol the front line health workers in the state in a life insurance scheme because of their vulnerability to the COVID-19 virus.