Ogun State Elders’ Consultative Forum has urged indigenes and residents of the state to desist from taking the laws into their hands, urging them to always embrace dialogue. The appeal was contained in a statement signed in Abeokuta by the Forum’s Chairman, Prince Bola Ajibola and made available to newsmen by the forum’s press officer, Dolapo Jinad. The elders said that the Amotekun Security outfit, when fully inaugurated, would work with all other security agencies to maintain peace in Ogun State. According to them, Amotekun will go a long way in reducing what they called the “nefarious activities of the unrepentant Fulani herdsmen,” who it was alleged, “have continued to destroy farmlands, as well as kidnapping innocent persons in Yewa and Ijebu.” The Yewa and Ijebu people facing Fulani herdsmen crises were asked by the Forum to trust the Governor Dapo Abiodun-led government, saying it is working tirelessly to sustain peace in Ogun. “It is imperative for the good people of Ogun State to continue to engage in dialogue where there are issues and tolerate one another because one must be able to give peace a chance. No society can develop meaningfully without peace. “We commend the Governor Dapo-led government for establishing the Amotekun Security Outfit. We believe it will work in collaboration with all other security agencies to maintain peace and as well further ensure the protection of lives and property of the entire residents of the State. It will reduce crime and curb the nefarious activities of the unrepentant Fulani herdsmen who have continued to destroyed farmlands, farm produces, as well as kidnapping innocent people of the state, most especially in the Yewa and Ijebu axis. “The forum admonish Ogun people to avoid taking laws into their hands and be assured that the present administration in the state led by Prince Dapo Abiodun will continue to work tirelessly to sustain the existing peace being enjoyed by all and sundry,” the statement read in part. DAILY POST reports that lives were lost, while houses were torched in the recent herdsmen crises in Ogun State. Gov Abiodun said he had deployed security task force to Yewa axis of the state to put an end to the unfortunate incident.