Diverse reactions have continued to trail the nomination of immediate past Service Chiefs as non-career ambassadors by President Muhammadu Buhari. DAILY POST had reported that the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, who confirmed the development, said their names have been sent to the Senate for confirmation. “President Muhammadu Buhari has forwarded the names of the immediate past Service Chiefs to the Senate as non-career Ambassadors-Designate,” Adesina had said in a statement. Reacting, some Nigerians on social media are of the opinion that Buhari nominated Buratai to enable him avoid International Criminal Court, ICC, prosecution. Recall that Nigerians and former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose had called for his prosecution after he resigned last week. Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered on Twitter. @Kachizone, “Buhari did this, so Buratai can have diplomatic immunity, thus evade prosecution for crimes against humanity he committed. Cc @IntlCrimCourt @AmnestyNigeria @amnesty #EndSARS.” @donjayson, “The nomination of Buratai and Olonisakin as ambassadors by @MBuhari is a deliberate attempt by the @NGRPresident at giving these guys diplomatic immunity. Perhaps this is the only way these guys and their families can get access to western countries.” @garbagubuchi, “Ambassador General Buratai (rtd.) has to be one of the luckiest soldiers in recent Nigerian history.” @T_Temitope, “When we were shouting Buratai and co are card carriers of APC, the Nigeria army are busy shouting it’s a lie, they are professional, at last, the truth surface that Buratai, Olonisakin and co are full time APC members.” @SodiqTade, “I read that Buhari asked IGP Adamu to hand over a few days ago and now I am reading that he has extended his tenure. Also read that Buhari has nominated Buratai as an ambassador a few days after his resignation. Putting this out for y’all to know this man has divided the country because of nepotism.” @Lord_Akpy, “Who is actually running this country? This is all about protecting Buratai from the ICC. Diplomatic immunity. I just hope he is rejected by the Country he is assigned to.” @Itz_elobz, ”So after all Buratai hard guy talk, baba don dey hustle diplomatic immunity. He cannot escape justice no matter how much he tries to.” @kabasa007, I thought Buratai wasn’t scared of the Hague? This action of Buhari proves that he is well aware of the crimes of Buratai and has chosen to protect him.” @Slyworld45, ‘ Buratai again, Nigeria is cursed and the violator is on the throne in Nigeria o. So no more better person for ambassadorial position again ba?.” @digispikex, ”Buhari is compensating Buratai for something. Nothing goes for nothing. Buratai has done something for Buhari. I’m 100% sure of it.”