The National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS, has supported the call by Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and other concerned Nigerians on the need for the Federal Government to do more in securing lives and property in the country. The students body made the call in a statement signed by its coordinators, Amangla Awetu, Abah Owoicho and Prince Badir on Wednesday in Makurdi. NANS, in the statement revealed that from 2015 till date, states within the zone had been the worse hit, with Boko Haram ravaging the North East, while armed herdsmen have been perpetuating mayhem in states within the North Central region. The Nigerian students described as shocking, the current wave of killings going on in all parts of the country, especially unprovoked attacks on farming communities in the Benue Valley, a situation they said was gradually pushing Nigeria into a state of anarchy. It also acknowledged the courage of the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom for being an advocate of peace and security by initiating the ranching of livestock as the standard practice. “We salute the courage of His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State for his continuous advocacy for ranching, the enactment of the anti-open grazing law and standing in defence of the unity of Nigeria. “We call on the Federal Government to with immediate effect consult with Benue State government in order to nationalize the anti-open grazing law of Benue state as other Northern Governors have openly affirmed the realities of ranching as best practice in modern animal husbandry. “We wish to state unequivocally that we are not unaware of some attacks from highly placed individuals including a sitting governor against His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom. We wish to state in clear terms that it is unreasonable to politicize crucial issues such as security of lives and peace of the nation. “At this trying times, all responsible citizens will stand with every voice of reasoning to defend the sovereignty of the Nigerian state Viz-a-Viz promoting the rule of law and adherence to the 1999 constitution; as such NANS zone C wishes to declare total support and solidarity for Dr Samuel Ortom and others who have continued to speak against the current challenge,” the statement said. The student body also noted that Nigeria belongs to all and it is the collective responsibility of all its citizens to protect and preserve it, stressing that no group that wants to cause mayhem in any part of the country should be spared.