The Bauchi State Police Command, on Monday, said its operatives have commenced investigating a viral video clip in which a gang of boys were seeing torturing a group of young girls. This is even as the command, in a statement signed by the command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Ahmed Mohammed Wakil and made available to DAILY POST, condemned the violence visited on the victims. According to the police spokesman, “Such open violation of human dignity is not only alarming, but an act that amounts to gender based violence.” Wakil stated that every woman had the right to live in dignity—free of fear, coercion, violence and discrimination, declaring that the police would ensure that such right was enforced within ethical and standard procedure of the law. “The attention of the Bauchi State Police Command has been drawn to a viral multimedia clip (audio and video) of a torture scene in which a gang of hardened young boys were seen cruelly inflicting severe pain and violent treatment on some group of young ladies in their late teens and early twenties. “The video shows the syndicate gang confining the group of captured ladies – numbering about ten of them – to an unkempt and uncompleted building as they brutally and oppressively beat the girls with intensive strokes of the whip. “They further demeaned the ladies by using razor blade to cut off their hair while using vulgar words to further harass them,” the PPRO stated. He disclosed that the command had since invited the victims with a view to getting vital information that might lead to the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators from them. “While the Bauchi Police Command sympathizes with the victims of the unfortunate incidence, we would like to place on record that they – victims – have since been invited to give vital information that will lead to the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators. “Our men have swung into action, investigations have earnestly commenced and the syndicate gang involved will be apprehended and arraigned before a court of competent jurisdiction,” Wakil stated.