Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Popular comedian, Debo Adebayo, also known as Mr Macaroni, and 39 others arrested over Lekki Toll Gate protest have been granted bail. Spokesman for the Lagos State Police Command, Muyiwa Adejobi, made this known in a statement on Saturday evening. 2. An attempt by the Chairman of the Southeast Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi to reconcile both factions of Ohanaeze Ndigbo ended in a stalemate on Saturday as the Chidi Ibeh faction refused to step down, insisting that they remain the authentic Ohanaeze national executive members. 3. The US Senate has acquitted Donald Trump of inciting the horrific attack on the U.S. Capitol. Trump was acquitted on a charge of “incitement of insurrection.” After the trial which lasted for five days in the Senate, lawmakers were largely divided along party lines, but victory went Trump’s way on Saturday. 4. A traditional ruler in Nnewi, Obi Charles Afam Obi, has been abducted. Obi, who is the traditional ruler of Uruagu Nnewi, was allegedly kidnapped in Orafite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State while on his way back from a burial ceremony yesterday. 5. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the country is allegedly collapsing under the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.
The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday, accused President Buhari of allegedly failing to effectively manage the economy, as well as the complex political and social nuances of the country. 6. Boko Haram notorious commanders, Abul-Bas and Ibn Habib, have been killed. Troops took them out in an operation at Banki Junction road around Pulka axis in Borno State. 7. Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, has raised the alarm over widespread insecurity in his state, decrying that the situation has widened the gap of poverty as most of them do not go to their farms for fear of being kidnapped. 8. Fulani herdsmen under the aegis of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore have vowed to resist any eviction from the South-West, citing their rights as enshrined in the Nigerian constitution to live wherever they desire. Miyetti Allah also vowed to avenge the alleged attacks on and loss of herdsmen and their cattle, saying it would never tolerate any act of injustice on herders. 9. Nigerian security forces have discovered an arms store at Effium in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Report claims that a combined team of agents stormed the location of the arms. The sting operation was carried out by the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigerian Army. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has confirmed 1,143 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in 18 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The new development brings the total number of confirmed infection in the country to 145,664.