In continuation of the well-publicized membership revalidation and registration exercise of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the special committee in charge of the state of Osun today briefed all the appointed local government registration supervisors across the state. The briefing which was held at the party secretariat in Osogbo, the state capital, had in attendance party stalwarts led by the Caretaker Chairman of the party in the state, Prince Gboyega Famodun, state APC Secretary, Alhaji Salinsile, Hon representing Iwo, Ayedire, and Olaoluwa Federal Constituency who also doubles as the west senatorial leader of the party, Hon. Amobi, Chairman, Osun Health Insurance Scheme and Osun Central senatorial leader, Elder Adelakun. While addressing the local government supervisors for the exercise, Prince Gboyega Famodun, charged them to ensure smooth membership registration without bias against interested individuals of the public, except in cases where such intentions are ill-conceived. He assured the party officials of utmost support in the task of documenting existing and intending members of the party. Famodun enjoined all political parties who had an accord with the ruling party in the state to use this opportunity to formalise their membership particularly members of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), who he said has been in accord with APC in the state for over two years now. The Igbajo-born prince appealed to estranged members of the party who defected to other political parties on the eve of the 2018 gubernatorial election to also explore the opportunity to formally reintegrate themselves back into the party, saying there will not be room for segregation in the name of a coalition after the registration exercise. In his opening remarks, the Chairman of the exercise in the state, Barrister Femi Odufowokan, reiterated the confidence of its committee on the calibre of personalities assembled for the exercise by Osun APC. He expressed optimism that it will be a hitch-free exercise. The supervisors who were secretaries of the local government and LGEA secretaries were drawn from local governments in the state. The exercise is expected to commence officially on Tuesday across all voting units of the state and run for two weeks.