Reno Omokri, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, on Tuesday pointed out 20 reasons why President Muhammadu Buhari is responsible for Nigeria’s corruption rating. Transparency International’s had in its recent index placed Nigeria at 149 points, 23 countries behind from its 2014 rating. Responding, President Muhammadu Buhari’s spokesman, Garba Shehu had blamed Nigerians for the latest poor rating. Reacting, Omokri faulted Shehu’s remark, stressing that Buhari’s administration was responsible for the bad corruption rating. In a post on his Facebook page, Omokri said: “On Monday, February 1, 2021, Nigerians woke up to a rather shocking accusation. According to Transparency International New Corruption Perception Index, released on Friday, January 29, 2021, Nigeria is more corrupt today than under the previous administration, having moved 13 places backwards in the CPI, from 136 in 2014 to 149 in 2021 (our worst performance ever.) “However, rather than own up to their failures, the ever blaming Buhari administration accused Nigerians, saying the long-suffering citizens of Nigeria, and not the government, were responsible for this abysmal corruption perception rating. “On Channel Television’s Sunrise Daily, the Any Government in Power Garba Shehu (he was also a spokesman to the Obasanjo PDP Government) said: “I will tell you that this one by TI is not a judgment on Buhari or his administration or its war against corruption, I will tell you that this one is a judgment on Nigerians because if you look at the indices they used at arriving at these conclusions, they used eight indices, six of which showed Nigeria as being more or less Nigeria in the same position.” “Garba Shehu is a man without credibility. He is described by Aisha Buhari, the President’s wife, as a dishonest human being, and he has serially proven that that assessment is accurate by his many untrue statements, including, but not limited to, the lie that bandits abducted only 10 Kankara boys on December 11, 2020 (we now know that over 300 boys were abducted), or the lie that Buhari has secured Nigeria (according to the Global Terrorism Index, Nigeria is now more terrorised than at any time under former President Jonathan), or his lie that “Nigeria just achieved the record of the second-largest producer of rice in the world” (Nigeria is not even among the top 10 rice producers). “Garba Shehu is a paid sycophant, who lies without fear of God. And to prove to Nigerians that the Buhari administration is irresponsible and that this President is incapable of leading Nigeria to anything other than total destruction, I will now list 20 reasons why Transparency International declared Nigeria, under Buhari, as one of the most corrupt nations on Earth.” He listed the 20 reasons below: * According to a former Buhari insider, Buhari’s nephew, Sabiu ‘Tunde’ Yusuf, who used to sell recharge cards in Daura, is now a trillionaire in Naira, without any known source of income. * The Buhari administration, not Nigerians, budgeted $500 million to digitalise the Nigerian Television Authority, a network that is not even worth $50 million. * It is the Buhari government, not the citizens of Nigeria, that budgeted ₦37 billion to renovate a National Assembly complex built for ₦6 billion only. ” Nigerians are not responsible for concealing the true owners of the Ikoyi Apartment billions, reported to be a potbellied former Governor of Rivers state. ”Why are the heads of the Executive, Legislature, Judiciary, Ministry of Defence, Army, Police, NSA, DSS, NIA, DMI, DIA, NPS, NCS, NIS, and EFCC all Northern Muslim men? This is against the Federal Character Act. Of course, Transparency International is aware that nepotism is also corruption. ”It is not Nigerians who went to Kano to lift the hand of Umar Ganduje, a man caught on camera collecting bribes in dollars and stuffing it into his babanriga. ”What happened to Aisha Buhari’s ADC and the billions he allegedly stole? He has not been tried since 2018. The case has been buried. Is it because he knows too much about Buhari and his family? Are Nigerians to blame for that? ”It is not Nigerians who refused to try Bola Tinubu, despite clear evidence of bullion vans carrying money into his home on Election Day 2019, in contravention of the Money Laundering Act, 2011, and instead made him a major powerbroker in the Presidency. ” It is not Nigerians who granted regular access to the Presidency to Babachir Lawal, a man whose hands were caught red-handed in the cookie jar, accused of stealing hundreds of millions via the grass cutter scandal. ” It is not Nigerians that protected Nasir Danu, Buhari’s right-hand man, who was arrested at London’s Heathrow Airport with huge undeclared sums of money and a fake passport, and was eventually deported to Nigeria, and then seen at Aso Rock smiling with General Buhari in a photo. * It is not Nigerians who allowed General Buhari’s children to use the Nigerian Presidential Jet to attend private functions or allowed APC Governors to use the jet to attend APC campaign events. * It is the Buhari administration, not Nigerians who claimed to have spent millions of dollars feeding school children during the #COVID19 lockdown. * Who is to blame for the refusal to charge anyone for NNPC’s $25 billion contracts awarded without due process, after the scam was exposed in a leaked memo from Buhari’s own minister? * Was General Buhari’s daughter made a manager at an NNPC subsidiary? Why? Are Nigerians to blame for that? * How come Nigeria’s foreign debt increased from $7 billion in 2015 to $32 billion in 2020, with little to show for it? Buhari has borrowed more than Abacha, Abdulsalami, Obasanjo, Yar’adua and Jonathan, combined. Where has the money gone? Much of it into private pockets. * Charly Boy, a prominent musician and singer, admitted that Festus Keyamo bribed him with a 9 figure sum. Where did Keyamo get such monies? The case was swept under the carpet, and Keyamo was rewarded by being made a minister. ”A former managing director of Niger Delta Development Commission, Joy Nunieh, revealed that a minister in Buhari’s government, Godswill Akpabio, was involved in multi billion Naira fraud and corruption and tendered documentary evidence. To this day, nothing has been done to Mr. Akpabio. He continues to serve in Buhari’s cabinet. * Aisha Buhari blew the lid off the fact that despite almost ₦10 billion budgeted for the State House Clinic under Buhari, the facility could not even boast of paracetamol or a working x-ray machine. Are Nigerians to blame for this blatant corruption? ”Despite the alleged NHIS ₦10 billion scandal which the government’s own auditors exposed, those indicted have not been charged or prosecuted. How could the former Chief of Army Staff, General Buratai have been able to afford properties in Dubai on his official and legitimate salary? Now, I ask Nigerians, if you were Transparency International, would you rate Nigeria as a nation that is serious in fighting corruption, when the government of Nigeria is yet to explain why they have allowed the 20 infractions listed above to go unpunished, and even sometimes to reward those behind these acts of corruption?