Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. There was a widespread outrage yesterday following the abduction of over 317 schoolgirls from the Government Girls Secondary School (GGSSS), Jangebe, Talata Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State by suspected bandits. Many Nigerians have lamented the high rate of insecurity in the country. 2. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo yesterday declared that cryptocurrency will in no distant future challenge traditional banking, therefore, called on the CBN and SEC to come up with robust regulations. Osinbajo made the remark at a one-day economic summit organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria. 3. There was pandemonium on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway yesterday when a joint team of policemen and the DSS allegedly attempted to arrest Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho. This was contained in a statement signed by a former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. But the DSS later denied the report. 4. The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, yesterday, dispatched two helicopters and police operatives for the rescue of about 317 abducted schoolgirls in Jangebe, Zamfara State. The IGP disclosed this in a statement by the force spokesman, Frank Mba. 5. Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho, following the alleged attempt to arrest him yesterday, said he will not be intimidated by the fresh attempt by the police, the army and the DSS to arrest him, saying any effort to arrest him on Yorubaland will fail. 6. The Osun State Judicial Panel of Inquiry into Police Brutality, Human Rights Violation and Extrajudicial Killings yesterday, said it had recommended the payment of compensations to victims of police brutality in the state. The panel chairman, Justice Akin Oladimeji disclosed this to newsmen on Friday. 7. The Special Adviser to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Media, Salihu Yakasai, has said that the government of the APC at all levels have failed Nigerians in their duty to protect lives and property. He stated this on Friday while reacting to the abduction of over 300 students in Zamfara State. 8. Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has condemned the alleged attempt by security operatives to arrest Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Igboho. Nnamdi Kanu on his Twitter handle yesterday, warned that Igboho should not be touched. 9. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, yesterday disclosed that the Federal Government does not know exactly when the much expected AstraZeneca vaccines will be delivered to the country. 10. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC has recorded another 600 cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria. The total number of confirmed cases since February 2020 has now jumped to 155,076.