Arsenal hero, Paul Merson, has predicted the position Chelsea, Manchester United, Liverpool and Leicester City will finish this season. Manchester United are currently in the second position on the Premier League table with ten points behind league leaders Manchester City. Leicester City is in the third position ahead of West Ham (fourth) and Chelsea (fifth), while Liverpool occupies the sixth position on the log. Providing his prediction for the EPL top four this season, Merson told Sky Sports: “Man City are in, obviously – that is the easy part! Next, I have to stick with Manchester United and Leicester, who are a very good team. “The top three now will stay there, in my opinion. After that, this is so difficult. You know me, I don’t like to sit on the fence, but I am finding it really hard to pick a team for the final spot. “Despite their superb season so far, I don’t see West Ham lasting the distance and that means a spot is up for grabs. “Moyes’ side has been brilliant, but I saw enough in that second half against Spurs to tell me it’s just too much for them to do in the remainder of the season. “Everton has got the fixture list to make a challenge, but I do worry about their consistency. For me, it’s between Chelsea and Liverpool for that final spot. “If Chelsea has a good March, that is it. They are in. But I worry about Chelsea scoring enough goals. I can’t see them blowing teams away. “I have always said Liverpool will make it, but when push comes to shove, it is so hard to stick with them, at the moment. It’s hard to get away from their form and the fact is luck is not with them. “You look at the games they have lost and you look at the games they have coming up and wonder if they can turn it around. They should beat Sheffield United, but there is doubt there, especially with no defenders. “I have shown so much faith in them, but the players keep dropping like flies. The one player I want on the pitch out of all of their players at the moment is Jordan Henderson. “When things are not going well, he’s the leader. He’s the player that gets people going. With him now being out of the team, it’s a bit of a worry. “It feels like I am just going with the name and not looking at the performances and results. The teams they haven’t beaten is very worrying. “I don’t know why, but I have to stick with Liverpool. Please don’t ask me why but I am keeping faith with Jurgen Klopp and his side.”