The Arch-Bishop, Cathedral Church of the Holy Trinity Anglican Communion, Niger Delta Province, Most Rev. Tunde Adeleye has taken a swipe at the Governor of Kogi State Governor over his ambition to become the President of Nigeria come 2023. Speaking to newsmen in Calabar, Cross River State, the Arch-Bishop condemned such action, saying “As I talk to you, one governor is already planning how to become President come 2023. “Shameless, wicked, callous when the people are suffering, when the people are hungry, he is planning to become President in 2023, what is wonderful about him, what is excellent about him, what has he done, on record. “I was in Okene about 2-3 years ago, right there, the road leading from Okene to Ogoja is hell on earth and you want ro transfer that punishment to Nigerians, now the suffering continue (NYSC), you now come and say we are looking for youths” the Clergy lamented Archbishop Adeleye pointed out that the responsibility of government is to provide jobs, provide treatment for the sick, but we are not ashamed, we want to create roads from Niger to Nigeria whereas the road from Calabar to Itu does not exist and nobody bordered, nobody cares, nobody is worried, everybody is talking about his pocket. “I have lived in this country for a number of years, I have never seen this kind of country, the creators of Nigeria did not know that Nigeria would be like this. We expected so much from this administration, our hopes were very high. “Everybody was talking about change, change change, all of us actually wanted that change but corruption and bad governance have been magnified and it is worse now than before, we exchange a monkey for a wild baboon. “Corruption is now real, more fundamental, corruption is older, stronger and has acquired greater techniques, those who are to kill corruption are nursing corruption, and corruption is worse now than before and at all level “In the past few years, this country has not been like this, the country is in a standstill, they are sycophants, deceivers, liars are all over the place, wickedness, callousness, killing, suddenly a cow becomes more valuable than a human being and suddenly, we are not talking anything more than insecurity and this insecurity is everywhere, in the house, in the office, and everywhere,” Archbishop Adeleye said. “I don’t agree that the country has failed, the truth is that there is no country at all, if there is a country, we would know but this one, there is no country On revalidation of APC, the Clergy said “Revalidation in APC is rubbish, what is to be revalidated, is it food on people’s tables, is it revalidation of a health system, is it children education, what is to be validated, we should revalidate roof on our head. We are terribly marginalized, we are ignored; we are seen as non-existent, our property and inheritance have been taken over already” he further lamented.