The Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, on Friday, formally commenced running degree programme in collaboration with the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, with the matriculation of 240 students. Speaking at the event, the Rector of the polytechnic, Architect Sanusi Gumau, described the matriculation as historic being the first of its kind in the polytechnic’s 42 years academic sojourn. Gumau informed that the matriculating 240 students were admitted in the polytechnic’s Schools of Engineering Technology and Environmental Technology, adding that running a degree programme in the institution was a dream come true. “For the first time we are witnessing our first set of degree students, spread across our Schools of Engineering Technology and Environmental Technology, in affiliation with the prestigious Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, being matriculated. “This is like a dream come true. When I assumed office as the sixth substantive Rector of the Polytechnic, I nursed the idea of expanding our tentacles in line with the fulfillment of our mission of achieving global competitiveness in technological training, through the provision of capable human resources, infrastructural facilities and participate in national and international linkages. “Words will always fail me in acknowledging the big-brother role the ATBU played and is still playing in fast tracking the processes leading to the successful realization of our affiliation with it. “I must, while expressing our immense gratitude to the management of the ATBU, also assure you that we shall always fulfill our part of the bargain in this academic romance,” the Rector said. He assured that the polytechnic is up to the task as it is equipped with adequate equipment, manpower and laboratories which are the prerequisites for training degree students. According to him, they came to this conclusion following the comments and submissions of the resource verification team from the National Universities Commission (NUC). He informed that the new Polytechnic Act empowered the institution to provide full and part-time courses of instruction and training to produce not only middle level but also high level manpower in technology, applied science, commerce, management and other fields that are relevant to the country’s development. “Coincidentally, these prerequisites as mentioned above form part of our core mandates as the new Polytechnic Act empowers us to provide full and part-time courses of instruction and training to produce not only middle level, but also high level manpower in technology, applied science, commerce, management and other fields that are relevant to the development of Nigeria,” he said. Also speaking at the event, the Vice Chancellor of ATBU, Professor Muhammad Abdulazeez, said that the university had no cause to be disappointed in the collaboration with The Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi. According to him, “because of the reports reaching us about this great polytechnic”, ATBU had not made the wrong decision in reposing its confidence in the polytechnic. Represented by Professor Mansur Malumfashi, Professor Abdulazeez declared that students matriculation was a cardinal requirement for qualifying any admitted student as a bonafide member of a university or indeed any tertiary institution. “As the tradition demands, we are here today to perform this pre requisite function in order to formally admit you into the main stream of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University community. Let me, therefore, congratulate you for this special opportunity. “You can only appreciate the special chance you have when you consider the great number of qualified persons like you who are unable to secure admission and get registered into a university. “I am convinced this calls for celebration on your part and you will do everything possible to justify this rare privilege,” the vice chancellor said. He, however, warned that the university has zero tolerance for social vices and would, therefore, not hesitate to deal decisively with any students or group of students found wanting. “Let me make it clear to you that ATBU, as a matter of policy, has zero tolerance to all kinds of vices. Anti-social behaviors such as cultism, examination malpractice, sexual harassment, drug abuse, indecent dressing, vandalism and truancy are not only frowned at but prohibited. “Our duty here is not only to give you access to knowledge but also to help in moulding your character so that you become responsible citizens of our nation. Those who are too arrogant to conform will be shown the way out. ATBU and Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, have something in common: zero tolerance to all form social vices.” The vice chancellor called on the students to note that the oath they took was an indication of their readiness to abide by ATBU laws and statutes as well as a promise that they would conduct themselves with decorum during their stay in the institution. Abdulazeez assured them that everything possible had been done to ensure the students were provided with an acceptable standard of educational facilities and welfare. He then advised the new students to give the polytechnic all the needed support to realize the vision and mission of both the polytechnic and the university. “Please, do not hesitate to avail yourselves with the facilities in place to enable you succeed. You should however, note that you are important stakeholders and custodians of these facilities. You should, therefore, use them wisely so that after you leave your younger ones will also come to benefit,” he advised. The vice chancellor then warned the students to abide by the COVID-19 protocols, saying that, “as you are aware that it is an offence to violate the protocols. “All students are, therefore, enjoined to always wear face masks, wash their hands regularly with water and apply sanitizer for safety reasons.”