The Deputy Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Hon. Oludare Kadiri has blamed the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Tokunbo Talabi for his arrest. He said the SSG was making secret moves to impeach him from office. Kadiri was arrested on Friday and detained at the Ogun Police headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, where he is being investigated for alleged assault. The state police spokesperson, Abimbola Oyeyemi, alleged that he recently led thugs to the houses of some politicians over the ongoing APC membership registration in Oru-Ijebu, Ijebu North Local Government Area of the State. DAILY POST has earlier reported exclusively that the APC membership registration and revalidation exercise turned a ‘black market’ in Ogun as a faction of the party continues to hoard the registration forms. Earlier, it was gathered that the SSG, Talabi and Kadiri went up in arms over the registration materials in Oru-Ijebu. Kadiri was said to have led his ‘boys’ to the SSG’s house for allegedly keeping the registration materials to himself, ignoring other APC leaders in Ijebu North. During the altercation, Talabi’s house was said to have been vandalised by thugs loyal to the Deputy Speaker; an incident that later led to his arrest on Friday. As of Friday, DAILY POST learnt that plans to remove the Deputy Speaker has reached an advanced stage. Speaking through one of his aides, the lawmaker said Talabi had been at loggerheads with him since his appointment as the SSG by Governor Dapo Abiodun, especially on party matters. He described as untrue, the complaints lodged at the police station by those he called loyalists of the SSG, that he led hoodlums to the residences of the SSG, one Mrs. Toun Oduwole and one Adekunle Yinusa. According to him, those who invaded the SSG’s house were hoodlums searching for COVID-19 palliatives. “The SSG, in December, still distributed the palliatives among his loyalists, hence, people of Ijebu North believed the palliatives are still there,” Kadiri’s aide said.