The Kaduna State Police Command has arrested five suspects in connection with criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and culpable homicide. The arrested persons are Musa Adamu ‘M’ in Wase local government area of Plateau State, Alhaji Sa’adu ‘M’ of Asaba, Delta State, Abubakar Adamu ‘M’ alias Katakoje of Ibeto village in Niger State, Muhammed Nuhu ‘M’ of Minjibir local government area, Kano State and Emmanuel James alias Doctor ‘M’ of Asaba, Delta State. A statement from the State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Jalige Mohammed, said, “On 30th December 2020 the Kaduna Police Command was in receipt of a complaint through DPO Panbeguwa from one Abdullahi Salihu ‘M’ a resident of Panbeguwa village alleging that on the 9th December 2020, his elder brother one Alhaji Ahmadu ‘M’ of the same address travelled to Delta State and since then never returned. All efforts to reach him through his GSM number proved abortive.” The complainant, according to the statement further said on the 12th December 2020 he received a phone call via an anonymous number informing him that his aforesaid brother is in the custody of the caller and demand of the sum of four million (N4 million) naira as a ransom for his release was made. The statement said it was disheartening that the said amount was paid but the abductors failed to release the victim and demanded an additional one million (N1 million) naira which the family obliged yet could not secure the freedom of the victim. The statement explained that on receipt of the complaint, the Command immediately swung into action using the available intelligence, technical support and succeeded in arresting one Musa Adamu ‘M’ in Wase LGA of Plateau State in connection to the incident. It further stated that upon interrogation, he made mention of his accomplices and equally confirmed that they have since killed the victim. The statement explained, “In a bid to ensure that justice is served, as it has always been the slogan of the Commissioner of Police Kaduna Command CP UM Muri, the investigation is further expanded using the available information from the first suspect in custody which equally yielded a positive result leading to the arrest of ) Alhaji Sa’adu ‘M’ of Asaba, Delta State, Abubakar Adamu ‘M’ alias Katakoje of Ibeto village in Niger State, Muhammed Nuhu ‘M’ of Minjibir LGA, Kano State and Emmanuel James alias Doctor ‘M’ of Asaba, Delta State.” It noted that all the aforementioned suspects confessed to have been involved in the kidnap and gruesome murder of Alhaji Ahmadu (victim) as well as other kidnapping incidences prior to the present one. It explained that investigations are currently ongoing and on completion all the suspects would be charged to court, stressing that concerted efforts are on high gear to apprehend the other four (4) remaining suspects currently at large. It explained that of the above incident and considering the circumstance of time factor before it was reported to the police, the Command called on all well-meaning residents of Kaduna State to promptly report any suspicious disappearance of their loved ones and wards to the nearest police station for immediate action.