The result against Man City means Liverpool are in the fourth position on the log with ten points behind Pep Guardiola’s men who have a game in hand. Manchester United’s legend, Roy Keane, has slammed Liverpool manager, Jurgen Klopp, for making ‘excuses’ following his side’s Premier League 4-1 defeat against Manchester City on Sunday. Two goals from Ikay Gundogan and a strike each from Raheem Sterling and Phil Foden gave Man City all three points against Liverpool as Mohamed Salah’s penalty was not enough to give Klopp’s men a point. After the game, Klopp was forced to defend goalkeeper, Alisson Becker, after two mistakes from the Brazilian goalkeeper led to goals for Pep Guardiola’s side, and he also insisted that his team’s target was a top-four finish this season. But Keane has now hit back at Klopp’s excuses and accused Liverpool of “believing their own hype” after ending their 30 years wait to win the Premier League title last season. “They are making a lot of excuses, to me they have been bad champions,” Keane told Sky Sports. “I’m looking at them, even the game during the week against Brighton, Brighton were comfortable during the game, you can be beaten in a game, but there’s a way to be beaten. “I think they have all believed the hype over the last year or two. We spoke about there’d be some sort of drop off, but they play for a big team in Liverpool. “It’s as if they won the league last year. They have all got a bit carried away, they have all believed their own hype as if they are going to beat teams. “But in my mindset, when you won a league title, the challenge was, ‘can we do it again?’. I never got the impression from this group, even from their interviews and the manager last year, it was almost, ‘let’s enjoy this’. “Obviously it was a long wait, 30 years, but I never heard the players come out and say, ‘we want to do it again’. That’s the key. “They’re talking about getting in the top four, from winning the league last year to all of a sudden going to the top four is where our targets are. “They’ve put out a strong team today, they still had their best-attacking players on the pitch, still had their best goalkeeper available, still have international players in midfield. He added, “It’s excuses after excuses. Jurgen Klopp said Man City had a break because their game was called off, I think they missed two days training. It just goes on and on and on. “You want a reaction from Liverpool’s performance against Brighton, a few weeks ago it was Burnley, they go to Man United in the FA Cup and concede three. Earlier in the season against Aston Villa, they conceded seven, and that was with Van Dijk. You could say, “This is a one-off’, ‘it’s a freak season’, ‘it’s corona’, just get on with it. Perform like champions. “You’re Liverpool if you keep performing like that it’ll be another 30 years before you win a league title, trust me.”