Players and officials of the Bauchi State government-owned club, Wikki Tourists Football Club, on Thursday morning were involved in a road accident. DAILY POST had reported that the players escaped death narrowly. It was gathered that the players were on their way to Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, to honour an NPFL match before the accident occurred at Hawan Kibo in Plateau State. Wikki Tourists are scheduled to face Dakkada United in the league match scheduled for Saturday. The accident was confirmed to journalists in Bauchi by the secretary of the club, Abdullahi Ibrahim, via a telephone chat. According to Ibrahim, the team left Bauchi by 4:00 am Thursday morning and having a smooth journey until the accident occurred in Plateau State. He informed that one of the tyres of the bus in which the players were travelling got burst while in motion and the vehicle went aflame, adding that the players and officials were able to escape unhurt. “Yes, one of the tyres of the bus burst and the vehicle was engulfed by fire. Fortunately, the vehicle did not somersault and all the players and other occupants were able to escape through the windows of the bus. “No one was hurt but the players and the occupants are in shock,” the club secretary informed. He added that though no one was injured in the accidents, players’ kits and other items belonging to team officials were burnt to ashes. “Thank God no one was hurt, but the players are in shock because they all escaped through the windows of the bus, but all their match kits, jerseys and boots were burnt to ashes,” he said. Ibrahim disclosed that both players and officials were still at Hawan Kibo, while efforts were being intensified to return them to Bauchi, adding that relevant authorities, including NPFL officials, had been notified of the accident. “They (players and officials) are still at the scene of the accident waiting for help. We have spoken with Plateau United to assist us with a bus to convey our players home because they are in shock,” the secretary said. Asked what will now happen to the match, Ibrahim said he does not know whether it would be rescheduled or will still go on as fixed. According to him, “the match is to be played this Saturday and it’s supposed to be a live match but, with this accident, we don’t know. “We don’t know for now because even if they are to play the match, will they play barefooted? “There was nothing that was removed from the bus. We have to ascertain the loss but all their bags, items, kits, jerseys were all burnt. The items are usually gathered at one corner in the bus whenever they are travelling.”