The Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), Edo State chapter on Tuesday defied the National Industrial Court order which restrained it from embarking on strike action. The National Industrial Court sitting in Benin City had on Monday in a suit filed by the State Government and the Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) in a Suit No. NICN/BEN/04/2021, restrained the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) from proceeding on any strike action in Edo State Primary schools. However, reacting to the restraining order, the state leadership of NUT said it had not been served with any processes or documents of a court injunction against the ongoing strike action that commenced on the 18th of January 2021. According to the Assistant Secretary-General of the union, Moni Mike Modesty Itua said at the close of work on Monday, no court papers had been served to the union. “The union is not aware of any court order. It was yet to be served any court order. As far as the union is concerned, the indefinite strike action is still in force. The indefinite strike action continues indefinitely”, he said. In spite of the restraining court order, teachers on the second day of the strike failed to resume at their various schools visited by DAILY POST in Benin City, the Edo State capital It was observed that the officials of the Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV) were deployed to man schools across the state. Monitoring the strike situation in Benin City, DAILY POST observed that the teachers were yet to resume in schools despite the court order. A visit to Emokpae Model primary school, along Mission Road the school was still like on Monday devoid of the normal buzz of academic activities as the teachers were yet to resume from their strike. A few staff suspected to be those of the local government education authority and the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) were sighted in the school with few pupils in a classroom. The situation at Agbado Primary School along Akpakpava road was worse as there were no teachers or pupils in the school premises except officials of the Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV). Asoro Primary School was under lock and key, while officials of the Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV) manned the gate when visited. At Ogboe Primary School located at First East Circular road, only officials of the Public Works Volunteer (PUWOV) were in the school. The strike which took effect on Monday, January 18 disrupted school resumption yesterday across the state, leaving pupils of government-owned schools stranded.