The Ekiti State House of Assembly has committed two bills to appropriate committees for further legislative scrutiny. The bills are the Ekiti State Water Supply Sanitation and Hygiene Sector Bill, 2021 and the Criminal Law of Ekiti Bill, 2021. The Ekiti State Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene bill is aimed at the State Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Sector, and other Agencies, Associations, Committees, and Persons that govern, regulate, provide, and access WASH services in Ekiti State. The Criminal Law of Ekiti, 2021 on the other hand is targeted at
promoting an orderly society. Both bills were introduced at the plenary by the Leader of Business, Hon Gboyega Aribisogan with other lawmakers making contributions. Hon. Aribisogan described the Water Sanitation bill as an essential bill meant for the establishment of an appropriate sector to
coordinate the personal hygiene of the state. Members of the House including Honourables Olubunmi Adelugba, Michael Arubu, Stephen Aribasoye, Goke Olajide and Ajibade Adeyemi in their various submissions, expressed support for speedy consideration of the bills. The bill on Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene was committed to the House Committee on Infrastructures and Public Utilities while the Committee on Judiciary and Legal Matters is to work on the Criminal Law. Meanwhile, the Assembly has commiserated with the people of Ogotun Ekiti, Ekiti South West, Ekiti State and Nigeria at large over the death of some Air Force officers in a helicopter mishap where an indigene of the state, Flight Sergeant Olasunkanmi Olawunmi lost his life. The member representing Ekiti South West 1, Hon. Joseph Adeyemi who called the attention of the Assembly to the incident while speaking under matters of public importance at the House plenary described Sergeant Olasunkami as an industrious son of Ekiti, who died for the service of humanity. In his contributions, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Funminiyi Afuye stressed that Sergeant Olasunkami and his colleagues should be honoured by
immortalizing their names. Noting that the young man and others died in the cause of national duties, Rt Hon Afuye commiserated with the people of Ekiti state and
Nigeria at large over the death of the promising officers.