Whilst the international pandemic has had a huge impact on travel and education, Nigerian students are continuing to accept places to study at the University of Dundee in the UK. Here are some of the reasons for this:  2. The University of Dundee has student satisfaction and safety at the top of the priority list
Students’ interests are at the heart of everything the University of Dundee does. Strict measures have been put in place to ensure that students are safe on campus with many lectures being delivered online. A dedicated team of academics and professional services staff visit Nigeria regularly and support Nigerian students on their journey from enquiry, arrival in Dundee, throughout their studies and as they move into being graduates.  3. Graduates from the University of Dundee go into great careers
From Sanusi Ohiare, Executive Director for Nigeria’s Rural Electrification Fund to Chidinma Kid-Ikeorha, Project Implementation Consultant for the United Nations Environment Programme, graduates from the University of Dundee are finishing their studies and taking on high-profile jobs. Dundee is the 4th university in the UK for graduates entering professional occupations (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2020) and helps students to find internships. Recent graduate Stephanie Anani, who spent 12 weeks as a manufacturing engineering intern at Proctor & Gables during her studies, stated “Studying at the University of Dundee has given me resources to gain both technical and soft skills that are essential in the job market. The careers service is exceptional and has guided me through the application process for most of the internships and external experience I’ve had. I absolutely loved my time here and have the confidence to face the rest of my career!”  4. The University of Dundee has a very supportive Nigerian Student Society
The Nigerian Student Society organises social activities, academic skills workshops, and events that help to promote students’ wellbeing and experience at the University of Dundee. They assist new arrivals from Nigeria with finding accommodation, student matriculation, settling into their schools and more. 5. £5,000 scholarships are available
The University of Dundee offers partial scholarships of up to £5,000 per year. Scholarships are awarded to offer holders who have demonstrated academic excellence. Applications are now open for students who want to start studying in September 2021. To find out more, visit www.dundee.ac.uk or contact the University of Dundee’s West Africa Recruitment Officer by emailing: westafrica@dundee.ac.uk  