The Authorities of the Bayelsa State Police Command have confirmed that at least two people were killed and several sustained multiple injuries when unknown gunmen opened fire on some residents at the popular Hausa quarters at Erepa road in Yenagoa, the state capital. DAILY POST gathered that unknown gunmen, on Monday night along Erepa road, Biogbolo community, drove in a Camry car packed around the Hausa settlement and shot at some persons leaving two middle-aged men dead. A close source and a relation of one of the victims said “My brother was where they used to stay with some of his friends on Erepa road, I left them earlier but later I was called and told he was shot dead by some persons who came in a car” “My brother does not have money and I have never seen him with any bad gang, they didn’t come to steal because they just came down and shot at them, how will I explain to my family people”. In a statement, sent to DAILY POST by the State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Asinim Butswat, the Command appealed to members of the public to remain calm as it has launched an investigation into the drive-by shooting incident in the community. The statement continued “On 22 February 2021 at about 2130 hours unknown gunmen suspected to be cultists in an unmarked Toyota Camry Car shot at some residents in front of their shop at Erepa and zoomed off. Policemen responded swiftly and rescued five victims to the hospital. However, one Auwal Bashir who was fatally injured died in the hospital. The other victims are responding to treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa. The suspected cultists proceeded to Agudama Epie at about 21:45 hours and shot one Paul Marcus Ivinbeke ‘m’ 23 years in a shop. The victim was rushed to Tobis Hospital, Akenfa where he eventually died. The Commissioner of Police Bayelsa State Command CP Mike Okoli has ordered police detectives to fish out the hoodlums who perpetrated the act and appealed to members of the public to volunteer useful information that will assist the Command in its investigation.