The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has commended the immediate past Chief of Army Staff, COAS, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai for the indelible human rights legacy he left behind. HURIWA issued the commendation in a presentation on human rights to the new COAS, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru yesterday in Abuja. The rights group’s National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko also commended Attahiru for pledging to uphold the human rights legacies of his predecessor. Onwubiko assured that members of the organized civil rights community in Nigeria will support Attahiru’s human rights agenda. According to Onwubiko: “Without sounding immodest, we wish to intimate or rather inform you that our organization has consistently partnered with your Institution in the area of promotion and protection of the Human Rights of all Nigerians for nearly one decade. “Be assured that we are open for collaboration, partnership and relationship that will ultimately result in the promotion and protection of Human Rights of Nigerians”. Onwubiko added that: “We humbly draw your attention to some salient facts adumbrated in the following sentences from a well respected human rights institution: “It is often during armed conflicts that human rights are infringed upon the most. Therefore, over the years, experts have focused much attention on the formulation of instruments aimed at alleviating human suffering during war and conflict. “Today, three areas of modern international law attempt to provide protection to victims of war: human rights law, refugee law and humanitarian law. While these fields are closely linked, they need to be distinguished systematically. Refugee law has been discussed in Part IV. “This chapter focuses on international humanitarian law, which differs from human rights law in that it concentrates on specified conflict-related acts and does not give rise to individual claims. “Humanitarian law applies in armed conflict, restricting the actions of warring parties, providing for protection and humane treatment of persons who are not taking part or can no longer take part in the hostilities.”