The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) and heads of various tertiary institutions in the country have agreed to conclude all 2020/2021 admissions by June 15. A statement signed by JAMB’s Head of Media and Publicity, Dr Fabian Benjamin, said public universities would conclude admissions a month ahead of private institutions, polytechnics and colleges of education. According to JAMB, it had arrived at the agreement with heads of institutions at a virtual meeting on Wednesday (Feb. 24) during which issues concerning admission processes were discussed. ”All admissions in the nation’s tertiary institutions for the 2020/2021 Academic Session would end by June 15. ”The decision was collectively taken at a virtual meeting with heads of tertiary institutions in the country on 24th February 2021,” it said. The board further said the meeting was aimed at knowing the level the institutions had reached on the 2020/21 Admissions scale. JAMB added that the essence of the interactive session was to forestall an endless admission regime generated by disruptions to daily life occasioned especially by the COVID-19 pandemic. It said that the meeting was also to enable the board to put necessary machinery in place for 2021/2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and Direct Entry Registration. According to him, only 30% of institutions has commenced admissions into the 2020/2021 Academic Session. ”Stakeholders collectively agreed that all public universities would be expected to finish admissions on or before 15th May, while private universities would complete theirs at the agreed date of June 15. ”This also includes all IEIs, polytechnics and colleges of education. The decision on the chosen deadlines remains sacrosanct and binding on all institutions. “The board will not tolerate any breach of the collective decision reached,” it said. JAMB also revealed that it would announce the commencement date for the sale of application documents for the 2021/2022 Academic Session in a week. JAMB also urged all institutions to adhere strictly to advisories issued to them on inter-university transfers, intra-university transfers, foreign inter-university transfers and fresh foreign candidates. It also advised university managements to adhere to advisories on change of programmes and institutions and other essential processes relating to admission.