The youth wing of the Igbo apex socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), has berated a viral picture of military operations in Orlu area of Imo State in south eastern Nigeria. DAILY POST reports that some footage of the airstrikes shared online by residents of the area have shown people being subjected to military actions. Nigerian military is carrying out air strikes in order to fish out operatives of Eastern Security Network (ESN). Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, had set up the security network to secure communities against attacks from armed Fulani herdsmen. But, Ohanaeze Youth Council, OYC, led by Igboayaka O Igboayaka, in a statement issued on Thursday night, posited that there was no deployment of hardware for aerial bombardment in Orlu, and expressed concern over unverified claims of military airstrike in order to create tension or disaffection among the people on the social media. According to the group, what has been happening in Orlu since three days was merely a routine check by the army who combed the bushes in the area to ensure it was crime free and devoid of armed criminal gangs who may be hanging around to foment trouble or cause disorder. OYC said it had observed that some certain groups are always fond of spreading falsehood, propaganda and sensationalized materials on social media with the wrong motive to raise false alarm and create an impression of what is not actually real. The Igbo youth group insists there is no cause for alarm in Orlu as the city remained calm and the people going about their legitimate activities without any interruption or violence. OYC statement partly read, “The youth body of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) ably led by Comrade Igboayaka O Igboayaka as the national President , can authoritatively confirm, that contrary to viral media reports that the military deployed their jets and other hardware for an aerial bombardment in Orlu, there was no such incident today in the Imo state town. “Although military jets were sighted hovering round the bush, media reports of a military bombardment and killing of inhabitants in Orlu town were entirely false and misleading. The public should disregard such reports and not take it seriously. “It has been observed that some certain groups are always fond of spreading falsehood, propaganda and sensationalized materials on social media with the wrong motive to raise false alarm and create an impression of what is not actually real. “Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC) hereby advice such groups and individuals to desist henceforth from exploiting the emotions and sensibilities of the people for their own selfish gains.”