Yoruba activist, Sunday Igboho, has launched a scathing attack on Enitan Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and the Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, describing them as Fulani slaves. The activist went further to berate some traditional rulers in Yoruba land, accusing them of not showing enough support for the struggle to liberate the Yoruba from their ”Fulani oppressors”. Igboho spoke at a virtual town hall meeting that started at late night on Tuesday and ended at the early hours of Wednesday where he pointed accusing fingers at the Ooni and others, saying that they were only interested in their own gains. The activist, who is fast becoming popular in the South West, said, “I am not concerned about the police. The struggle is about Yoruba agenda as it concerns security situation in our land and I trust Yoruba people for support. “When Ooni visited Buhari, the president received him by standing up but he said something I don’t like. That is why the Alaafin called me. He wants to tackle what Ooni said. “Ooni should be able to tell Buhari about what Yoruba want. But he has collected dollars from Buhari. He called me but I don’t want to see him. “Only Alaafin is supporting us and he has written a letter to the president. Ooni disappointed me. Politicians are with him,” he added. “Our leaders are lazy and slaves to Fulanis. They visit Abuja to collect money, we will attack them and destroy their property. Ooni should be dealt with. I am annoyed. Why should we be afraid of the crown they (Yoruba monarchs) wear? “Tinubu and other Yoruba politicians are Fulani slaves. We need not be afraid. I have not collected any money from anyone. I am a full Yoruba man and I will not allow Fulani people to enslave me, we do not look or behave alike in any way. The herders should go. Makinde is also a slave to the herders because of second term ambition,” Igboho said. Igboho became popular after he issued a seven-day ultimatum to the Fulani community in Igangan, a town in Ibarapa Local Government Area of Oyo State. He made good his threat to evict the Fulani from the town when he gathered his supporters, stormed Igangan and confronted the Seriki Fulani. DAILY POST reported yesterday that Sunday Igboho, also stormed troubled areas in Yewaland, Ogun State, in continuation of his anti – killer herdsmen battle in Yorubaland. He had vowed that all killer-herdsmen will be evicted from all parts of Yoruba land. Igboho stormed the state after the residents of Yewa, Abeokuta North, Odeda and some parts of Ijebu decried what they termed the inability of the Abiodun-led government to tame the killer herdsmen. However, the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun said his government did not seek the help of Igboho to tackle insecurity caused by the activities of suspected Fulani herdsmen in the state. The Tuesday night virtual meeting was attended by over 1000 participants from within Nigeria and the Diaspora.