Six suspected hoodlums specialised in stealing mobile phones, laptops, wrappers, wristwatches and other valuables have been arrested by the Kaduna State Police Command. The state Police Prunliy Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, in a statement explained that, “On the 12th January 2021 at about 1630hrs, some resident of NASFAT layout, Kaduna jointly reported to the Command that, on the same date at about 0300hrs some hoodlums bearing offensive weapons invaded their individual homes, inflicted severe injuries on the security guards. “They (hoodlums) succeeded in carting away valuables which included; fourteen (14) mobile Phones, three (3) Laptops, three (3) set of wrappers, five (5) wristwatches, among others and the cash sum of forty-two thousand four hundred and fifty naira (42,450.00) all properties valued at two million, two hundred and ninety-nine thousand, four hundred and fifty naira (2,299,450.00) to unknown destination.” The statement noted that on receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police Kaduna Command, CP UM Muri, immediately dispatched a team of police operatives, headed by officer in charge of Intelligence Unit to ensure the perpetrators are brought to book without delay. According to the report, in turn, the officers swung into action, gathered intelligence and succeeded in arresting one Abdulrazak Sani ‘M’ in connection with the incident. It further explained that upon interrogation, he (Abbdulrazak Sani) disclosed the identities of his criminal accomplices and were equally apprehended. The names of the suspected accomplices, according to the statement are Usman Sale a.k.a Usama, Umar Abubakar a.k.a Dan Kaduna, Nura Idris a.k.a Goska, Sanusi Usman a.k.a Small, and Ibrahim Saidu a.k.a DPO. The statement explained that one other suspect is still at large. It said that all the suspects have since confessed to the various roles they played in the commission of the said crimes while investigation is ongoing and they would be charged to court afterwards. According to the statement, “In view of the above success, the value of community involvement in preventing crimes cannot be overemphasized thus, the Command is calling on all residents to be security conscious and report any suspicious happenings within their neighbourhood to the nearest Police formation for prompt action.”