One of the 13 ambassadors of T Pumpy Estates, Femi Adebayo, has explained why he endorsed the brand. The entertainer said before accepting to work with the organization, he made a lot of searches as regards to their integrity, the kind of property they get, what title the properties have and he discovered they are genuine and reliable.  Speaking with newsmen during the weekend, the Yoruba actor said, “I endorsed T. Pumpy Estate because I made my findings and do a lot of searches as regards their integrity, the kind of property they get, what title the properties have. “I was just pleased with the result I got. They are extremely reliable and I decide to pitch my tent with them that’s why I play T. Pumpy, I drink T. Pumpy, I talk about T. Pumpy because of their integrity.  “I believe that what makes a brand unique is the title like I mentioned. They are so many things that make a brand unique. The title to their properties, their affordability, their customer service, their honesty and their transparency. “Everything makes a brand extremely unique. And very interesting to say that the company has the interest of the people at heart by wanting to ensure that everybody has a land or house at the Federal capital territory, Abuja.  “The Yoruba adage actually says that when you’re very sure of what you have, you make bold at any point in time to let the entire world know that this is what you have. That actually provoked us going on the street of Abuja to tell people about the properties we have at T. Pumpy Estates, telling them how reliable they are and how affordable they are.  “We need to bring it closer to people, sometimes when you have something extremely good around you and you don’t know it is there, it doesn’t worth it except we bring it close to you. That was why we decided to go on the streets of Abuja recently to distribute flyers, telling people of Abuja how genuine T. Pumpy Estates are. The messages on the flyers are obviously telling them where they have the properties, we have it at Kuje, lifecamp, Lugbe, Guzape, Karasana, Kyami, and a lot of places in Abuja.” On the affordability and reliability of the real estate firm, the talented actor said, “I’ve said so many things about T. Pumpy Estates, I have told you about their reliability, affordability, transparency and all.  The managements are awesome. “Talking about the MD/CEO, Mr. Akintayo Adaralegeb, he’s a man that the Almighty Has raised for a time like this. “Ask me why! He’s a man that is extremely passionate about the people’s success. He’s a man that wants to see everybody around him happy. And for a man that has conscience like him would definitely never sell a product that is not worth selling. “He’s an extremely God-fearing man, he’s very friendly, he’s wonderful. I eventually came on board as an Ambassador and I decided to be part of the family, I decided to be a friend knowing the kind of person Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe is. So I have no doubt that all this is reflecting on the success of his company and business. He’s an embodiment of good behavior, I cherish him.”  The T-Pumpy Concept team has decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve. Call us today: Corporate Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja. Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja. Follow us on our social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380