A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) registration and revalidation team in Oyo state, Mr. Ahmad Sajoh has said the ongoing exercise will tackle fraud in membership of the party. Sajoh made this disclosure when the National membership and revalidation committee of the party handed over registration materials to the Oyo State chapter of the party. The materials were handed over to the party for onward distribution to all the local governments and wards in the state. Our correspondent reports that Sajoh represented the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) membership registration and revalidation committee in Oyo state, Hon. Abubakar Bawa Bwari at the event. The APC chieftain while speaking with journalists during the distribution, called on members of the party and people of the state to take advantage of the opportunity of the registration to join the party. He added that this is done to identify and know the bonafide members of the party. He pointed out that the world is now in a digital age, that is why the party is also going digital in the registration of its members to ensure the success of the party ahead of the 2023 general election. Sajoh described the registration exercise as a unique one. He added that the APC remained the only party in Nigeria to register its members and ensure that its members have a unique number. “This new system of registration and revalidation is the first of his kind in Nigeria and it would guide against any irregularities, mix-up and fraudulent membership. “We have received good cooperation from the leadership of the party in the state, a technical committee was set up, and everyone that suppose to be part of the committee has been trained at the unit level, ward and local government level on how to handle the registration so that they can understand what the exercise is all about. “There won’t be any mistakes in the distributions of the form because the forms have been already coded according to their local governments, and two local governments can never have the same number, we have taken the cognizance of all the diverse interests within the party in Oyo State, so the exercise is inclusive, we are not going to close our gate on anybody, so, nobody is going to be disqualified from registering.” APC Caretaker Chairman in the state, Chief Akin Oke described the nationwide exercise as a huge success.