Nollywood Actress, Georgina Onuoha has alleged that teachings from Nigerian pastors form part of the reasons for broken marriages and the use of Kayamata by women in the country. The actress said this while reacting to a statement by Mike Bamiloye, advising single women not to be feminist as he preached against it. According to Bamiloye, “If you are a single sister do not join the feminist movement, the feminist movement makes you miss the will of God for your life. If you are married do not join them either if you want to get the best out if your marriage . Onuoha , reacting on her Instagram page warn Nigerians to stop listening to such preaching from men of God in Nigeria , revealing that such is the reason why women in Nigeria are seen as commodities, properties and are constantly abused by the society. Her post read: “I start questioning kind of preaching pastors put out there on the pulpit that is why we have broken society and homes. To hear a man of God reduce feminism all of una dey craze. It is high time we start reading bible by yourself and stop watching men of God that are leading so many of us astray “These are the kind of teachings and preaching from men of God that are suppose to be spiritual leaders are teaching Nigerians, yet we wonder why women in Nigeria are seen as commodities, properties and are constantly abused by the society. “Yet this same pastor has enjoyed the dividends of feminism because everyone watched his wife growing up as a part of his ministry. “I hope someone tells him that his wife being able to have a voice and be part of his production is the textbook definition of feminism.” According to her, teachings from pastors have made young girls and women to use Kayamata, denying them the ability to attain their full potential. “It is teaching like this that has dimmed the light of so many women in Nigeria, because they cling to the words of their pastors while denying themselves the abilities to attain their full potential. “It is because of such teachings that our girls and women have been reduced to Kayamata.” She stressed that the Bible did not teach against feminism, adding that many pastors in Nigeria are just taking “advantage of the scriptures, perverting it to soothe their own fragile masculinity. “Women should demand what is due you, honor your father and husband but never let anyone tell you you are not enough not even your pastors. “Demanding equal pay, same respect, right to lead and be heard is not a sin,” she added.