Actress Rosy Meurer has taken a swipe on those who are against her marriage to Tonto Dikeh’s ex-husband, Olakunle Churchill. Recall that Tonto in a video tearfully revealed how Churchill’s Personal Assistant and actress, Rosaline Meurer crashed her marriage. DAILY POST reported that Meurer in her defence denied the allegation, saying critics should get their facts right. She also stated that her relationship with Churchill was work-related and described him as her mentor. However, Mr Churchill in a post via his Instagram page on Monday contradicted her statement when he addressed Rosy Meurer as ‘Mrs Churchill’ while wishing her a happy birthday. This triggered a lot of comments from a cross section of Nigerians on social media. While some accused Meurer of being a husband snatcher, others cursed her, saying karma will pay her a visit sooner than she thinks for making her fellow woman go through pain. Reacting, Meurer in a post via her Instagram account on Tuesday, blasted critics against her marriage to Churchill. According to her, the ”lawyers and judges” who left ”hilarious comments” on her page were battling idleness and that their comments made her day. “’Thank you so so much to everyone that took out time to pray for me on my very special day. I see you all and words cannot express how appreciative I am for all the love you showered on me. “To all the lawyers and judges, Mamas and Papas, I see you all too and I equally appreciate you all for making me priority on my day. “I thank you for spicing up my day with all y’all’s hilarious comments. I am happy I was able to keep you busy as we all know how hard it is to get jobs and how so many of you are battling idleness. “I’m glad you all had the opportunity to share your ideas and theories on my day. Without you guys this life for no balance. Indeed my day wouldn’t have been the same without you all. “Everything you all wished upon me, I wish same to you all individually. May God bless you all It’s all LOVE from this end. I am honored,” she said.