Former Liverpool star, Michael Owen, has predicted Manchester United to beat Everton 2-1 in tonight’s Premier League clash at Old Trafford. Owen also predicted Aston Villa to beat Arsenal 3-1 at Villa Park on Saturday afternoon. Providing his prediction, Owen told BetVictor: “Manchester United’s 9-0 thrashing of Southampton will be long remembered by the Old Trafford faithful. “Their home form has been a bit of a concern this season, so winning so emphatically will build the confidence that they need if they are to go on a winning run there. “Everton’s fine season continued with an away win at Leeds midweek. The Toffees are well in the race for Europe, and with Carlo Ancelotti at the helm, it would be no surprise to me if they got there. “Everton have won their last four on the road, however, this will be their hardest test since that run began. United seem full of confidence just now. “They are undefeated in 13 of their last 14 matches against Everton in all competitions, and I think they’ll just edge this one in what should be an entertaining match. Manchester United 2, Everton 1.” Commenting on the Aston Villa vs Arsenal game, Owen said, “Arsenal had a night to forget at Molineux midweek, and they face another tricky tie in the West Midlands against Aston Villa in Saturday’s early kick-off. Both these sides have contrasting styles of play. Arsenal like to have most of the ball whilst Villa are quite happy to sit in and counter. Usually, you’d expect the home side to play on the front foot, however, I think Villa will happily give up territory and try to hit on the break. There aren’t many teams better at that than Villa just now, and with Messrs Grealish and Watkins in such excellent form, I think they’ll have enough to take all three points. Aston Villa 3, Arsenal 1.” The kick-off time for Man United vs Everton is 9 pm, while that of Aston Villa vs Arsenal is 1:30 pm. EPL: Michael Owen predicts Chelsea vs West Ham, Man United vs Leeds, Tottemham vs Leicester, others EPL: Michael Owen predicts Man United vs Sheffield, Everton vs Leicester, Chelsea vs Wolves EPL: Michael Owen predicts Arsenal vs Leicester City, Man United vs Chelsea