President Muhammadu Buhari’s Personal Assistant on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, has come under attack for publicizing the commencement of online registration into 81 Regular Recruit Intake for both Trades/Non Tradesmen and women of the Nigerian Army. DAILY POST recalls that the Nigerian Army had announced the commencement of online registration into 81 Regular Recruit Intake for both Trades/Non Tradesmen and women. Ahmad took to his Twitter handle on Monday to publicize the recruitment exercise. He tweeted, “To whom it may concern! Recruitment into the Nigerian Army. “To all interested qualified candidates, the online registration for 81 Regular Recruit Intake for both Trades/Non Tradesmen and women will commence on Feb. 15th, 2021. Apply here: http://recruitment.army.mil.ng Pls RT.” Reacting, some Nigerians on Monday took to their Twitter page, calling on Ahmad to publicize the CBN, NNPC and FIRS’s recruitments. Here are some of their comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @iam_doctormayor “Do you publicize CBN, FIRS, NNPC, and other federal government agency recruitments like this??” @kofoworabeauty “No, simply because this particular one is for the National sacrificial lambs…” @olisa_wenger “When CBN NNPC, FIRS recruitments are open. It’s not been publicized like this. But when it’s time for police, army and nonsense agencies. The poor and low lives can apply to be errand boys and security details to the kids of the looters and rogues politicians. Our eyes don clear.” @__tanimola “Even this one self na base on logistics. CBN NNPC FIRS dey upper level of the logistic chain.” @Nasridamuz “Bros u shock me ooooo With this attitude of yours, how will you expect Nigeria to be better.” @Usman_U_U “Yaya bashir inform us when there is NNPC or CBN adv.” @Drbee22 “Una too much for nnpc and cbn… Make d number reduce small….. Army first…” @official_itec “Very simple, just pick 2 people from all senator’s family, house of rep family, president and his aide’s family, governor’s and his aide’s family then boom you have more than enough. So when they die in war front you will know how it is. Forces like army should be joy to join.” @official_itec “With a very good salary, i mean they should be earning a substantial amount not 40k that you are paying, have a good, advance and upgraded equipment abi, do you publicize CBN, FIRS, NNPC, and other federal government agency recruitments like this?? Oga goan rest.” @odubayo822 “People are saying “who wants to join NA at this time”…Northerners don’t mind and are going to apply in drove, they will dominate the class and we will be here in 30yrs time when one of them become Service Chief.” @Philip_Richy1 “Go and tell ya herdsmen to register, already they have all the necessary stuff.”