Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Aviation Minister has explained why he met with Mai Mala Buni, the interim committee Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and some chieftains of the party. Fani-Kayode explained that his meeting with APC chieftains was centred around national issues and party politics. The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain pointed out that Nigerians must set aside their differences because the country was heading towards a civil war. Recall that Fani-Kayode had met with Mala Buni and the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello in Abuja yesterday. Following the meeting, there were insinuations that the former minister was planning to defect to the APC. Reacting, Fani-Kayode in a series of tweets wrote: “Yesterday I had the honor and privilege of having a very productive and important meeting with the National Chairman of the APC, Gov. Mai Buni of Yobe State and Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. We discussed the state of the nation, national issues, party politics & the way forward. “These meetings are wide-ranging and ongoing, and I am delighted to be involved in them. Despite the obvious benefits and wisdom in this noble initiative, it amazes me that some people should feel that it is wrong for me to sit with other leaders in the country to discuss issues which touch and concern the national cohesion, future and stability of our country. “This is a time in which we must set all our differences aside, build bridges and come together as one, lest our country drifts into fratricidal butchery and civil war. “It is right and proper for us to talk and to attempt to join hands across political, religious and regional lines to save Nigeria. I can and will never compromise or jettison my core fundamental principles for any reason & I stand firmly on my honestly held opinion that we need to enthrone equity, justice & fairness in this country for it to survive. “I also believe in restructuring the country and in a vigorous and effective fight against terrorism. The fact that I am in talks with leaders from a cross-section of political parties, including the ruling party, does not in any way derogate from this & does not mean that I will ever change those views. The next few months will be critical in terms of whether our country will survive as one & I believe that if we want it to do so dialogue, building bridges collaboration, even with those that you may disagree with on some issues, is vital and inevitable. “That was the purpose of our meeting. Permit me to add the following for the record. I will always stand for justice and I will never cease to oppose evil. “Yet the greatest evil that we are confronted with today is the prospect of a second civil war. “Despite our differences, as leaders and statesmen, we must all sheath our swords and ensure that we never go down that path.”