The All Progressives Congress (APC) has flagged off the membership registration in the southwest, days after President Muhammadu Buhari revalidated his membership. The event was held at Ila Orangun, the hometown of the national leadership of the party to honour the pioneer interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande and Iragbiji, the home town of Governor Gboyega Oyetola. Akande was the second party member to formally validate his membership after Buhari. The exercise is holding simultaneously in no fewer than 119,973 polling units and 57,000 voting points across the country. The Governor of Osun State, Oyetola, a member of the APC National Caretaker and Extra-ordinary/Convention Planning Committee, on Wednesday, canvassed mass participation in the All Progressives Congress (APC) membership registration and revalidation exercise. He called on party members and loyalists across the nation, particularly in the southwest to ensure full participation in the registration exercise, which he described as the only sacrosanct way of being a bonafide card-carrying member of the ruling party. Addressing the people at the two registration points in Ila and Iragbiji, Oyetola said, “Adequate training has been given to the personnel who will be in charge of registration update and revalidation for a duration of two weeks beginning from today. “I call on the good people of Osun to seize the opportunity of becoming card-carrying members of our great party. I urge state, local government and ward leaders of the party to take all the necessary steps in ensuring a smooth and transparent registration exercise,” he added. Earlier, the leader of the APC Membership Registration and Revalidation Monitoring Committee in Southwest, Sen. Lawali Shuaib, said the choice of Ila Orangun, the home town of Chief Akande, as the venue for the southwest flag-off registration exercise, was a deliberate decision. He noted that the initiative is a testimony to the undiluted respect which the party has for its leaders.