A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress and ex-National Publicity Secretary of the defunct New Peoples Democratic Party, Chukwuemeka Eze has appealed to former Representative of Rivers South/East Senatorial district, Senator Magnus Abe and a chieftain of the party, Mr. Igo Aguma to save whatever integrity left in them by leaving the APC party. Eze asked the duo to formally join their alleged cohorts in the Peoples Democratic Party and allow the APC in Rivers to reposition and conduct the party the way it should be structured. He said the continued stay of Abe and Aguma in the APC has done serious harm to the party in the state through frivolous litigations, ”in their bid to sustain their voyage of political merchandise and evoke cheers from those gullibly entrapped in their deceptive snare”. He insisted that the duo must leave the APC for the party to achieve unity and as well as enable the leadership to restrategize ahead of 2023 and future elections. Eze, in a press statement made available to DAILY POST on Monday, said Abe and Igo Aguma’s cases against the All Progressives Congress (APC) will continue to be thrown out to restore calm in the troubled party in Rivers State. The former PDP national spokesman insisted that the two factional leaders of the APC were allegedly conscripted by Governor Nyesom Wike and some disgruntled elements within the party fold to wreak havoc and sustain unrest within the state chapter of the party. His statement, “Having discovered that they lack the numbers and the least of what it takes to participate in any democratic system, Abe and his circle of saboteurs are totally afraid of the disgrace that awaits them should they participate in any Congress of the party. The reason above offered them no other option than to continue with their wicked plots against a peaceful APC in Rivers State”. “Now that the Supreme Court has struck out their cases coupled with the fact that by their actions they have demonstrated to the world that they are not interested to revalidate or register as APC members, notwithstanding the fact that all their external sponsors have revalidated theirs in their various states shows how ignorant and mischievous they are”.