Some gunmen suspected to be kidnappers Monday, invaded Oke Odan community in Apete area of Ibadan and kidnapped the son of a poultry farmer. DAILY POST gathered that the poultry farm situated at Oke Odan community, in Apete, a suburb of Ibadan, is owned by a man identified as Mr. Odetunde. It was gathered that the kidnappers who abducted the son of the farm owner invaded the area Monday evening. Our correspondent learnt that the kidnappers after shooting sporadically in the community to scare residents, stormed the poultry farm and whisked the son of the owner of the farm away. Though, some sources claimed that some of the workers who were kidnapped alongside the son of the farm owner were later released, a family source close to Adetunde, however, confirmed that only the son was kidnapped. Our correspondent gathered that the whereabouts of the kidnapped victim is still unknown as at the time of filing this report. The victim, according to the family source is an undergraduate of the University of Ibadan. The family source who spoke with DAILY POST in confidence on Monday evening, added that the kidnapping of the son of the poultry owner has thrown Apete into confusion. “Yes. It has been confirmed that one of the sons has been kidnapped. I learnt that he was kidnapped in the farm today. “They said that when they came, they shot into the air and kidnapped him. “Some people are not moving out of the area now. It is not a fight as some people had insinuated, it was a case of kidnapping.” Some of the residents of Apete and other communities in Ido Local Government Area said that they are currently keeping vigil to prevent future attacks. A resident told DAILY POST that, “We cannot sleep now. We have to keep vigil. As I was coming home, they blocked the road. People are now checking cars and motorcyclists coming and going out of Apete.” But all efforts made by DAILY POST to get the reaction of the spokesman of the State Police command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi proved abortive. Calls put through to Fadeyi’s phone were not successful while an SMS sent to him to confirm the abduction has not been replied as at the time of filing this report on Monday.