Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday extended the tenure of the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu for three months. The Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi made this known while briefing State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, nominated Service Chiefs who were sacked and replaced last week as non-career ambassadors. Buhari’s spokesman, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement. 3. Members of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Non-Academic Staff Union of the Universities and Allied Institutions (NASU), were yesterday, ordered to embark on a nationwide strike from Friday, February 5. 4. The Department of State Security, DSS, yesterday drafted armed to teeth personnel to the residence of Sheik Abduljabar Nasiru Kabara, following Kano State Government’s banning of the cleric from preaching, praying in his Mosque and engaging in other Islamic activities. 5. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Thursday said Faisal Maina, the son of Abdulrasheed Maina, a former Chairman, defunct Pension Reformed Task Team (PRTT), had fled to the United States of America (USA) while still under investigation. 6. 37 herdsmen alongside their 5,000 herds of cattle were on Thursday ejected from forest reserves across Ondo State. The herders who were ejected by operatives of Amotekun Corps were accused of flouting the earlier order of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu that herdsmen grazing in the forest reserves should either register with the appropriate agencies or vacate the reserve. 7. The Federal Government on Thursday, disbursed N27 billion to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) as part of the MSMEs Survival Fund Scheme. The Minister of State, Industry, Trade and Investment, Amb. Mariam Katagum, who disclosed this, also revealed that the government would open its portal for the last phase on February 9. 8. The Palace of the Ooni of Ife, on Thursday, declared that the monarch, Adeyeye Ogunwusi has forgiven Sunday Igboho over his derogatory statement against the monarch. This came after Igboho had apologized to the Ooni. 9. The immediate past Managing Director of the disbanded Interim Management Committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Prof. Daniel Pondei, has been summoned to appear before the Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. The summon was connected with the alleged release of N6.25 billion COVID-19 palliative by the Federal Government to the NDDC during his time which the spending remains questionable. 10. The Nigeria Center for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 1,340 new cases of coronavirus (COVID-19), bringing the total number of recorded infection to 136,030. The health agency made the announcement on Thursday via a tweet on its official Twitter handle.