The on-going All Progressives Congress (APC) Membership Registration and Revalidation exercise has re-united all the warring groups in the Enugu State chapter of the party. DAILY POST reports that since 2018, the party remained factionalized in the State, with the foreign affairs minister, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, backing one faction under the chairmanship of Deacon Okey Ogbodo. But throughout the period, the National Working Committee of the APC recognized the Dr. Ben Nwoye-led leadership as the authentic structure of the party. All the squallbles now appear to have been laid to rest as Onyeama, among other dissenting voices, stormed the APC secretariat in the State on Monday, where the registration panel met with stakeholders. It is nearly the first time that Onyeama and his group would be identifying with Nwoye and attending a meeting at the party secretariat since the 2018 congress that produced two factions. At the meeting, all the stakeholders, including the minister, said the time of fighting was over, declaring their readiness to bury the hatchet and move the party forward in the State. Addressing party members, chairman of the registration panel for Enugu State, Sen. Jonathan Zwinginar assured that the exercise would be transparent. “We have no hidden agenda and the exercise is going to be transparent. There is nothing to quarrel about because the APC in Enugu State has the manpower to make things happen,” he said. Zwingina said that the registration materials would be disbursed in a transparent manner during the exercise. In his remark, Onyeama said the time of fighting was over, stressing “we should not repeat the same mistakes of the past; united we stand, divided we fall. We should stand to be counted in the new APC in Enugu State. “I’m here to make the naysayers know that we can work together.” Also speaking, a former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani, said that the registration would be done at the polling units level. Nnamani said that the essence was to know how many of their members that were in each of the polling units across the country. “The journey to 2023 general elections has started. Go to your polling units to know how many members we have there. “We introduced this method in order to disprove the idea that the APC is a northern party,” he said. Nnamani said that he was happy that members of the party in the state had set aside their differences and resolved to work as one. Similarly, a former governor of Enugu State, Barr. Sullivan Chime and the 2019 governorship candidate of the party in the State, Senator Ayogu Eze said they were happy that members of the party had come together. “We are all equal stakeholders, it is not about the position you are holding. We are not fighting over anything,” Chime said. On his part, Senator Eze had this to say: “my happiness is that if I go back today, I will sleep very well. Thanks for giving peace a chance; we must make sure that this peace, which foundation has been laid today, endures.” Earlier, the Caretaker Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Ben Nwoye, said that the meeting marked a new dawn for the party in the state as the days of bickering were over. Nwoye appealed to the APC faithful to embrace peace and unity in order to improve the fortunes of the party in the state. Other speakers at the meeting included Hon. Mrs. Ginika Tor, Commissioner representing Enugu State in the Federal Character Commission, immediate past National Vice Chairman, South-East of the party, Chief Emma Eneukwu, Barr. George Ogara, among others.