The Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Architect Amos Olatunde Ojo, on Tuesday, revealed that activities of the lower Chamber of the National Assembly have been digitalised. The CNA stated this during a 2-day working visit of the members of the National Assembly Service Commission led by the Chairman of the Commission, Engr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi to the National Assembly complex in Abuja. Ojo said the feat was made possible within one year of the new NASS leadership because of cooperation and understanding of the Commission members, assuring that the continued cooperation, would make them to also digitalise activities of the Senate chambers. He noted that his administration has enjoyed an unprecedented cooperation of NASC which offered him impetus to reposition the NASS, with regards to staff welfare, pointing out that members of NASS staff were promptly promoted to the surprise of everyone. Ojo said: “There is no way we as management would have recorded the things we have achieved so far without the positive working relationship we have had with members of the National Assembly Service Commission. It is clear that as a result of the dynamic posture and symbiotic relationship with the Commission, we are happy over our achievements so far among which is the last promotion exercise of staff that was prompt along with the early release of the examination result. “This development was quite a clear break from the past. Under our watch we have been able to digitalize activities in the House of Representatives Chambers; e- voting is now the order of the day; attendance, order papers are presently being captured on screen, including identification of lawmakers by the presiding officer, while that of the Senate is in the pipeline. “To further ensure smooth process of law-making in the National Assembly, plans to introduce e-hansard within the first quarter
of this year 2021 are near conclusion. This will be a clear departure from the analogue past to the digital world best practice. “We are working round the clock to improve on the welfare of our staff in this year 2021. “Plans are in advanced stage to upgrade the National Assembly Library, to make it world class. Specifically, we are looking at e-library within the shortest possible time. “Because the well-being and health of our staff is paramount in our hearts, we are going to boost the National Assembly Health Centre, so that our staff can have unlimited access to quality health care always.” Ojo noted that his team was working to address the issue of staff housing which he said was critical when it comes to addressing their welfare, adding that they could only concretise, if synergy was built between NASS and NASC leadership. “In the light of the above, we are passionately craving the indulgence of the distinguished members of the National
Assembly Service Commission, to continue to synergize with the management in all fronts, especially on the issue of more
financial support to enable us practicalise our objectives and aspirations for the overall development of the National Assembly. Reacting, the Chairman of the National Assembly Service Commission, NASC, Ahmed Kadi Amshi, emphasised that welfare of staff remains a priority to him, saying promotional exercise for 1600 candidates would take place on 20th February 2021.