Akwa Ibom State Police command has said it has arrested five persons allegedly involved in the renewed crisis between Ukonteghe Uda and Enwang communities in Mbo Local Government Area of the state. It added that 18 expended cartridges, one live 7.62mm ammunition and 5 expended 7.62mm ammunition were recovered from them. Recall that the two communities have been enmeshed in a war over land ownership where scores were reportedly killed while others injured. The State government has since declared its intention to take over the disputed land for developmental projects in order to bring lasting peace to the communities. But it was gathered that, the crisis resurfaced when some youths from a particular community dragged a member of the other community into the bush and later murdered him. Sources close to the communities had told our correspondent that several houses including that of the former Inspector General of Police, late chief Etim Okon Inyang and a former member of the National Assembly, late Martin Okon Effiong were torched while two soldiers and a policeman were wounded in the attacks. But the Police Public Relations Officer in the State, SP Odiko Macdon speaking on the incident on Friday said houses were destroyed but that he was not aware that an army officers and a policeman were wounded in the crisis. He said the commissioner of police, Andrew Amiengheme, has ordered reinforcement of more officers and had also personally visited the scene to engage the stakeholders there. His words, “The truth of the matter is that we have arrested five suspects in connection with the latest escalation. We have also recovered 18 expended cartridges, one live 7.62mm ammunition, and 5 expended 7.62mm ammunition. “What really led to this recent crisis is the unconfirmed report that youths of a particular community dragged a member of the other community into the bush and killed him. This led to the issue where some houses were destroyed. I’m not aware any army officer or policeman was wounded n the crisis. “The commissioner of police has ordered reinforcement of more officers to dominate the scene and has personally visited the area to engage with critical stakeholders. As we speak, normalcy has returned and we hope that it will be sustained. “We’re praying that all options should be brought to the table, so that lasting peace would be achieved between the two warring communities.”