A Divisional Police Officer identified as Ayodeji Adepoju has allegedly shot an operative of Oyo State Security Network Agency also known as Amotekun. The incident, DAILY POST gathered on Saturday occured at Igbon Police station in Ogbomoso geo-political zone of the state. DAILY POST gathered from sources that the DPO at Igbon Police Division, Surulere Local Government Area, Mr. Adepoju reportedly shot an operative of Amotekun on Friday. Our correspondent gathered that the DPO ordered the arrest of two Amotekun Corps for arresting herdsmen whose cattle were grazing on a farm in Gambari area, for destroying crops. The aggrieved farmer, whose farm was plundered by the cattle, was said to have reported the case to Amotekun Corps. The herdsmen were arrested by Amotekun operatives. It was gathered that some of the herdsmen were said to have reported the case to the DPO who ordered the arrest of the two Amotekun operatives, Mr. Jenyo and Olatunji Mayowa, who were investigating the case. It was gathered that the DPO said the Amotekun was not set up to arrest herdsmen but to go after armed robbers. It was after the arrest of Amotekun operatives that Mr. Araoye Amoo, the unit Commander of Amotekun in the area, went to the police station with his men to secure the release of the two officials. It was gathered that as Amoo was discussing with the station guard, the DPO stormed out of his office and reportedly collected a gun from a policeman and shot one of the Amotekun men in the leg. The Amotekun operative who was shot by the DPO is still at the hospital as at the time of filing this report on Saturday. Amotekun Commnandant in Oyo State, Col. Olayinka Olayanju confirmed the incident in a statement made available to journalists on Saturday. Olayanju added that the injured Amotekun official had been taken to the LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso for treatment. He said, “The DPO arrested and detained our men that arrested herdsmen. The unit commander led some of his people there to ask for the release of his men but the DPO was said to have shot them. One of them was injured and he is on admission at LAUTECH Teaching Hospital.” But, Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, in a statement said, the Fulani reported that some Amotekun operatives wanted to set their settlement on fire. He added that some policemen who were deployed there brought the Amotekun men to the police station. “It was a report from the Secretary of Miyetti Allah, one, Oroji Allah ‘m’ at Orile Igbon Police Station that some Amotekun operatives planned to set ablaze Fulani ‘Igaa’. A team of policemen was sent to the scene and brought them to the station for amicable settlement by the DPO. “Not too long, Amotekun corps numbering about 30 invaded the station and conducted themselves in an unruly and riotous manner. Three of them were arrested. The Area Commander Ogbomoso is handling the matter.”