The Peoples Democratic Party, Kaduna State chapter, has contested the legitimacy of the Kaduna State Electoral Commission, KADSIECOM, to set a date for the conduct of the Local Government Councils election in the State. The Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission, KadSIECOM, had announced the conduct of election into the 23 local government councils of the state on 18th May, 2021. KADSIECOM overseer, Ibrahim Sambo announced the official date for the 2021 LG elections in the state. State Publicity Secretary to PDP, Abraham Alberah Catoh, in a statement, explained that, “Our attention has been drawn to a purported Local Government election in Kaduna State, notice and timetable, by the Kaduna State Electoral Commission, KADSIECOM. “PDP in Kaduna State is contesting the legitimacy of KADSIECOM to stipulate a date for the conduct of the LG election in the State.” The statement noted that, “The Overseer and his cohorts have no legal power to convene such meeting(s), as it is not duly constituted by the combined effect of Section 197 (b) of the 1999 constitution, as amended, and the 3rd schedule of the constitution, which clearly states the powers of the State Independent Electoral Commission.” PDP observed that it is only a duly constituted State Electoral Commission that can give such notice(s), as in the case of Kaduna State Electoral Commission whose membership is not complete and the overseer is not recognised by the law. According to the PDP, the notice issued, and any other act done by the “Overseer” is unconstitutional and cannot stand. It noted that as far as the law is concerned, there is no SIECOM body in Kaduna State, until such a time the membership of the Commission is properly constituted. The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, called on all its members and supporters to remain calm and be focused, as according to it, the illegality cannot stand. The party then called on the governor Nasir Elrufai-led APC government, to be more proactive and live up to its constitutional responsibilities, by constituting a legally recognised electoral body, that would conduct local government elections in Kaduna State, which would be recognised by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.