The Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State Command, CP, Garba Aliyu on Wednesday confirmed the death of three police officers in a ghastly motor accident at Isieke Junction along Abakaliki Enugu express-way. CP, Aliyu revealed that there were thirteen officers in the Hilux van returning from a peacekeeping mission in Effium community. He noted that ten out of the thirteen officers sustained serious injuries and were taken to the hospital. CP Aliyu who confirmed the incidents to newsmen said: “Yes, I am in the hospital now, we lost 3 officers while 10 are in intensive unit care”, he said. An eyewitness who spoke to newsmen anonymously said the Police Hilux van conveying the officers veered off the road and jumped the pavement which resulted in the death of three of them. Recall that war broke out in the Effium community where hundreds of houses, cars and other valuable properties worth millions of naira were set ablaze by warlords in the community. No fewer than 8 peasant farmers in the community were killed as a result of the crisis. DAILY POST gathered that the officers were in the Effium community for a number of days, working to ensure that peace returned but had to go back home to their families. Meanwhile, residents of the community who fled to Izzi, Ohaukwu, and parts of Benue State are said to have returned following the relative peace and normalcy in the community. In a related development, the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Ebonyi State Command DSP. Loveth Odah said the two tribes of Effium community have decided to resolve their crisis using traditional means. She said: “They decided to use traditional means to make peace and they have embraced peace. “As I talk to you now, normalcy has returned to the area. They have agreed to drop their hostility against one another and we are very happy with them for that”. She noted further that some of the villagers had started returning home and that police personnel escorted some of the displaced persons back home after the peace meeting. “The CP has directed that the suspects arrested with offensive weapons and the suspected warriors who keep on killing innocent citizens be charged to court because we recovered not less than 20 pump-action and other offensive weapons from them. The suspects arrested should be over 50, she said in that regard” she said.