The police on Tuesday arraigned a 45-year-old man, Olanrewaju Elijah before an Osun Magistrate’s court in Osogbo over a N2,031,000 rice scam. Elijah, according to the charge sheet obtained by DAILY POST fraudulently obtained the sum of N2,031,000 from one Mrs. Kadirat Akande under pretence of supplying her seventy three bags of rice. The defendant was brought a two-count charge bordering on fraud and stealing. Police prosecutor, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Idoko John told the court that the defendant committed the alleged offence between the months of September and October 2016 at Osogbo. The prosecutor said the alleged offence contravened sections 419 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code cap 34. Vol.II Laws of Osun State 2002. In his plea, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges leveled against him. The defense Counsel, Mrs. B.Y Dada prayed the court to admit the defendant to bail in a most liberal term, adding that the defendant will provide a reliable and credible surety if he was admitted to bail. Mrs. Dada noted that peace meeting is currently going on between the two parties. She said she is confident that the complainant will be refunded and assured the court that reasonable amount from the money will be brought to the court on the next adjourned date. However, the bail application by the defence counsel was opposed by the prosecutor who argued that the accused has been on the run since he committed the alleged offence but he was tracked through his phone. The prosecutor added that the police made a lot of efforts in tracking him and releasing him on bail will jeopardize the effort of the police. According to him, justice would not prevail if he was admitted to bail. ASP Idoko said the defendant promised the complainant to get her rice from a company in Nasarawa state but nothing came out of it since 2016 till date. In his ruling, Magistrate Isola Omisade admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N1,000,000 and 2 sureties. The case was adjourned till March 8, 2021 for reports of settlement.