Some Nigerians have kicked against the decision of the Lagos State judicial panel of inquiry to reopen Lekki Toll gate. DAILY POST had reported that the panel, probing the alleged killing of End SARS protesters at the Toll Gate, approved the reopening of the Toll Plaza and returned control to its owners, the Lekki Concession Company (LCC). However, some members of the panel, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa alongsid other three members of the panel, Patience Udoh (representing civil society), Rinuola Oduola and Temitope Majekodunmi (representing the youths) rejected the repossession and the reopening of the plaza. Some Nigerians also took to social media disagreeing on the development. According to them, the approval proved that justice will not be served to those that died at the spot. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @AbdulMamud01 “The vote to reopen the LekkiTollGate is the last nail driven into the coffins of the brave ones who were murdered there on 20.10.20. May their blood continue to haunt the murderers.” @Theogweofdelta “Lekki Tollgate must not resume operation until Justice is served. In fact, that Tollgate should not be there anymore. Abi which kind dirty rubbish I dey hear so? @Emmanueldaniel “If the youths allow Lekki tollgate to be reopened, then shame to all of us. Secondly, the blood of the innocent will not forgive us. They still want their revenge.” @Thomas Muller “We must stand for what is right this our Government is trying to ruin the life of youth how can they open lekkitollgate when justice is yet to prevail. My people we must stand as one.” @MeStephenchidi1 “Any member of that panel should be considered as betrayal and part of our killers for peeing on the blood of Lekki tollgate #EndSARS protesters that where massacred! Reopening the tollgate is the end of justice to the dead! @Austinabolade “A judicial panel established by LASG approved the re-opening of Lekki tollgate owned by (LCC) LASG. Are we expecting a different outcome? @Ikebobo1 “This goes a long way to tell us that in Nigeria the word justice doesn’t exist.” @Iammajordre “This is insensitive of them. That place should be considered a memorial site and not a toll gate. Lives were lost.” @Habeeblah2 “There’s absolutely nothing good coming out of this rubber stamp Lagos Judicial Panel of Inquiry! Is this what they are meant to do? Is this the justice the people clamoured for?”