Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo will register as a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State. The APC Registration and Revalidation Exercise kicks off on Tuesday, February 9. DAILY POST reports that Osinbajo is expected to participate in the exercise at his ward in Ikenne Local Government Area of Ogun. The Chairman of the APC Registration and Revalidation exercise in the State, Ademorin Kuye disclosed that the committee would be fair to all parties during the period of the exercise. During a visit to Governor Dapo Abiodun in his office in Abeokuta on Monday, Kuye commended him for making their job easier with the provision of an enabling environment. “The registration exercise will commence on Tuesday, 9th of February when the Zonal Committee will be visiting to register the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibajo and then we, the State registration committee will be visiting the polling unit of the Governor to register him and then register the Deputy Governor too,” he said. Kuye also disclosed that after the completion of the exercise on February 3, the committee would commence the sorting of registration details on February 24; adding that it would give room for appeals and complaints from any quarter before submitting its report to the National Registration and Revalidation committee. Ademorin, while noting that the committee has completed the training of its supervisors in the 236 wards of Ogun, added that the committee has received 3, 213 registers and 321,300 forms for the exercise. In his remarks, Gov Abiodun, while noting that no one would be discriminated against during the exercise, said that the purpose of the exercise, which is to make the party bigger, would be defeated if members are discriminated against. “I will continue to ensure that we do not discriminate, as a matter of fact, it will not make sense for us to discriminate against anyone, winning an election is only by way of numbers, the more, like they say, the merrier, the more we are the greater the chances of us winning in elections, we can not be saying we are inclusive on one hand and then on the other hand, we are not allowing people to join us,” he said. Abiodun, who also noted that the registration exercise would be done in the wards and polling units as prescribed by the party, added that the registration of the Vice President and himself at their wards and polling units are symbolic and defining steps that would show that registration is not to be done at the corner of anybody’s home.