Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday presided over the virtual groundbreaking ceremony of the rail line to connect Nigeria and Niger. The rail project will link Kano-Katsina to Jibiya-Maradi. 2. President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged the Senate to confirm the new Service Chiefs as ambassadors. Buhari’s appeal was contained in a letter sent to the Senate and was read by the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan. 3. Some suspected internet fraudsters, popularly known as ‘Yahoo Boys’, on Tuesday protested their incessant arrest by the security agents in Osun State. They blocked Osogbo/Ilesa expressway in the State. 4. As crude price hits almost $60/barrel, the Federal Government has asked Nigerians to prepare for another hike in the price of the product because the international price has a direct bearing on the cost of refined products. 5. The Northern Governors Forum (NGF) has declared that the current system of open grazing was no longer sustainable and should be reviewed in view of increasing urbanisation and population growth of the country. The forum also expressed concerns over growing insecurity in the country and called on political leaders to establish a difference between criminality and social groups in their jurisdiction. 6. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Tuesday alerted Nigerians on the merchants of malpractices in the centres of its 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination in some Northern parts of the country. 7. Some gunmen have abducted seven passengers along Ilesha-Akure road, near Iwaraja junction, and demanded payment of ransom before releasing them. The abduction, according to sources, occurred on Monday and the victims were said to have been moved to a forest in Iwaraja. 8. The Federal Government has filed a 25 new count charge against a former Aviation Minister, Stella Oduah, some of her aides, a Chinese firm, and others for their alleged complicity in the laundering of about N10 billion. 9. Former Super Eagles defender, Yisa Shofoluwe is dead. He died at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital on Tuesday night. The former Golden Eaglets’ assistant coach, according to close relatives died of complications from COVID-19. 10. The Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, has confirmed 1,056 new cases of coronavirus, (COVID-19) in 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The development brings the total number of confirmed infection so far to 141,447.