Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has admonished members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), particularly chieftains, to avoid taking crowd to the registration points, saying such act would contradict the COVID-19 safety protocols. Oyetola charged the party leaders during the flag off for southwest registration and revalidation exercise with stakeholders’ meeting in Osogbo, the Osun State capital on Tuesday. The governor assured of a hitch-free exercise of the recently flagged-off nationwide membership registration and revalidation of the APC in the state. He said the party was resolute to continue to maintain and sustain its leading role as the ruling party in the country. The state governor disclosed that the registration exercise for the southwest region would be flagged off in Ila-Orangun, the country home of the party’s pioneer Chairman, Chief Adebisi Akande, adding that the exercise would take two weeks upon the day of commencement. The stakeholders’ meeting was convened at the instance of the leadership of the party and the collective resolve to intimate and equip the chieftains and members of the party with necessary information to ensure free, fair, smooth and crisis-free registration exercise. While enlightening members of the party on the importance of the registration exercise, Oyetola said the exercise was as important as the party itself. “I am sure you are all aware of this exercise. Even before the beginning of this exercise, some were asking why we needed to go for another registration and revalidation. The answer was that some were very young at the last time a similar exercise was done. “It is important for us to know who is who in APC and that is what we are doing. The exercise is simple. It is just for one to register if one has not done it before. For those who have registered, all they need to do is to revalidate their membership.” he added. Earlier, Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC) Membership Registration and Revalidation Committee in Osun, Barrister Femi Odufowokan, enjoined the party loyalists to continue to display the good character which had earned the party accolades as peaceful political party in the country. Those in attendance were: Osun Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi; Speaker Osun House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Owoeye; Osun APC Caretaker Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun; members of the State Executive Council; APC chieftains; members of the Osun APC registration and revalidation committee; party’s loyalists among others.