A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Joe Igbokwe has disclosed 15 reasons End SARS protesters “failed woefully.” Igbokwe said organisers and protesters of End SARS failed due to lack of effective leadership. The APC chieftain stated this while faulting the proposed protest at Lekki toll gate today. In a Facebook post, Igbokwe said occupying highways without considering essential workers like emergencies, Ambulances, Fire trucks, Anti Crime Policemen at work, medical workers led to their failure. The post reads: 1 ENDSARS PROTESTERS started very well , the organizers were well articulated and they had a mission. 2. But they failed to have a central, committed and effective leadership led by a strong person who understands what is at stake and when to apply the brakes. 3. President Buhari and Governor Sanwo Olu of Lagos responded quickly and took practical steps and that were honest and physical, one by one. The protesters looked the other way. 4. The babies , yes the babies started adding more demands: #ENDNIGERIA, #ENDBUHARI, #ENDAPC, #END POLICE, #ENDASIWAJU, #ENDCORRUPTION, etc. Instantly and at once we needed nobody to tell us that it is a PDP affair. 5. The babies occupied Lekki Toll Gate, The seat of Government in Alausa, Lagos/ Ibadan Expressway, Lagos International Airport road, Lagos/ Abeokuta road, Ikorodu Road and the critical roads in Lagos. They did not consider emergencies, Ambulances, Fire trucks, Anti Crime Policemen at work, medical workers etc. 6. Soon the babies, careless and uncoordinated organizers started serving assorted foods, pizzas, chickens, eggs, burgers , salad, vegetable soup, fried rice, shawarma etc and hoodlums, armed robbers, one million boys, undesirable elements infiltrated the real protesters. 7. And the looting started and warehouses, Malls , residential homes , ordinary stores, markets, etc became targets. It was unbelievable.
8. Lagos State announced Curfew but the babies and empty heads did not listen. 9. They started killing Policemen, burning police stations , breaking prison gates etc. 10. Prominent Nigerians appealed to them to show understanding and stop the protest but they were adamant. 11. And the real massive destruction of Lagos started. Nothing was spared and they left historical monuments in ruins. Lagos needs more than one trillion naira to fix the rot the bandits and hoodlums left behind. 12. The unthinking #ENDSARS PROTESTERS have not even deemed it to even apologize and show remorse for the killings , looting arson and massive destruction of assets across Nigeria.
13. They cared less and showed no remorse 14.They gave us the impression that it was going to be a peaceful, civilized and well organized protest but it turned out to be an unmitigated disaster 15 . Today the unthinking babies and their baby leaders say they are staging another protest at Lekki Toll Gate tomorrow.