The All Progressive Congress (APC) National Revalidation Exercise is yet to commence in the eighteen local government areas of Cross River State. DAILY POST, while monitoring the exercise in the State observed that no chapter of the APC in the eighteen local government had commenced the conduct of the exercise. It was observed that those who are supposed to have handled the exercise were yet to arrive various local government areas of the State; hence the training for the conduct of the exercise has not been done or carried out. Speaking with our reporter on Monday via phone, the Deputy Governorship candidate of the Party (APC) Ntufam Ekpo Okon said, “It might not start exactly tomorrow because those who have been nominated for various unit to carry out the exercise have not been trained, and they are still being expected to be trained. “Those who are supposed to be trained for the next two to three days, to enable them understand their line of duties have not been trained. The exercise might be shifted by one week. Revalidation is the problem of the Party and it is not a case if one is in support or not. I don’t see anything wrong. “What is there is that, in truth, if you asked a lot of persons if they are still members of the party, they may not tell you, some have moved out of the party, some have died. What we want is that any person who wants to be a member of the party must be a financial member. “That means, at the point of registration, he or she must pay registration fees, even if you were a member, and you want to revalidate your membership you must pay that fee which makes you a financial member. I think it is right, and I think it is proper and those who want to register should go and register, and it should not be by proxy so that it’s not a case of somebody being registered when he is not here,” he stated. Ntufam Okon said everybody ought to go home and register. “I warn against anybody attempting to hijack the registration materials. I think ultimately, it does not help anybody; it does not help the strength of the party. When someone decides to hijack the materials, what does he want to achieve at the end of the day, it will not pay,” he stated.