Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, CAGG, has vowed to lead a massive protest against President Muhammadu Buhari’s government over ethnic clashes and insecurity in the country. Bamgbose said that the failure of president Buhari, the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces to address the nation on these pressing issues across the nation is highly disturbing. The senior lawyer explained that the cordial relationship that has existed between the Yoruba and other ethnic groups, especially the Fulani and the Hausa, for donkey years, have now been shattered, alluding to the recent clashes in Oyo State. “The painful thing about the ugly scenario is that our President has blatantly refused to constructively come up with ways to prevent the looming disaster,” Bamgbose said while addressing a press conference in Abeokuta. According to him, it is very sad that the Yoruba now see the Fulani as enemies and vice-versa adding that this is purely a wrong notion. “This conflict is like an ill-wind that will blow no one any good. I’m very much concerned about the innocent Northerners affected by these clashes. “I’ll also commend the Governors who came from the North to visit Governor Makinde on the issue of Shasha market. Dialogue remains the best way to resolve any conflict. “No one is in doubt that we have bad eggs among the Fulani herdsmen, but there should be a way to deal with them and spare the innocent ones of the pains they are passing through. “After considering this ugly trend, I’ve decided to inform our President to address the nation or get prepared to order my arrest for leading a peaceful protest. “Whether Fulani or Yorubas or Igbos, we are Nigerians. Lives must be protected at all cost. I won’t sit in the comfort of my house and watch Nigerians being turned against themselves. “I will soon lead a protest if Buhari won’t address this security issue. Enough is enough. The time to ACT has come,” Bamgbose, a 2023 presidential hopeful said.