Over 52 Fulani households resettled in Abuja community, as T Pumpy CEO, Adaralegbe Akintayo calls peaceful coexistence No fewer than 52 Fulani households have been resettled at phase 24 Lugbe, Abuja, by renowned real estate magnate and philanthropist, Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Abuja growing estate development company, T. Pumpy Concept LTD.  This is as the estate developer had earlier acquired the land at phase 24, Lugbe, with the original allottees and Gbagyi farmers duly compensated. In a bid to resolve the accommodation crisis of the Fulanis who were taking refuge on the land of the company, the T. Pumpy boss gave an average of N200,000 to each of the 52 Fulani households.  In a recent meeting, the leaders of the Fulanis on the land, expressed happiness and satisfaction concerning the kind gesture of the T. Pumpy boss and promised to vacate his land in a month’s time to allow for further development of the property. The estate owner, Mr. Adaralegbe said that he believes in peaceful resolutions of issues and he’s happy with how it ended in harmony.  T. Pumpy Concept LTD, is one of the leading estate developers in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, with no fewer than 28 estates units spread across the Federal Capital City and is ensuring that thousands of Nigerians residents have access to houses of their own.  Famous celebrities like actor, Femi Adebayo, Ayo Ajewole (woli Agba) Sulaiman Alao Malaika, Femi Oladele (solar) Nafisat Abdullahi, Tayo Odueke (Sindodo) Oreofeoluwa Lawal (Mummy calm dawn) Enenche Enenche, Asiri, Baba Alariya, SamoBaba, Bintu are all brand ambassadors.  In complimenting government’s efforts in the housing sector, the T Pumpy boss and his company have made land payments very affordable and flexible. The estates are in Lugbe, Guazpe, Wasa, Kuje, Wawa, Karasana and Kwali and Katanpe.  T-Pumpy Concept team has decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve.  Call us today: Corporate Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja. Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja. Follow us on our social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380  —