For every couple across the globe, Valentine is a time to take a refreshing trip through time to celebrate love. TECNO Blue valentine has been a tradition for Africa’s most iconic brand for several years. It is a seasonal celebration designed to create lasting memories for couples across Nigeria. This year, TECNO is not only celebrating the married couples but all engaged couples, courting couples, and all sorts of passionate relationships. TECNO remains a brand committed to making a difference in Nigeria, it’s no wonder that love finds a special place at the core of TECNO’ mission. To participate in the TECNO Blue Valentine, visit TECNO social media pages [ Facebook, Twitter and Instagram], make a 1-minute video with your partner stating how old your love journey is, your experiences, the things you admire in your partner. You can also post a picture of you and your partner and with the answers, using the hashtag #TECNOBlueValentine. Ensure your entry is genuine and verifiable. On Facebook, post as a comment under the pinned activity post on TECNO official Facebook page, and get your friends to like and comment on it. On Twitter and/or Instagram page, post your entry on your page using the hashtag #TECNOBlueValentine. Ensure you are following ALL of TECNO social media pages for your entry to be valid. Ensure you get your friends to share, like and comment on your entry. Every day from Feb 1st -14th February 2020, 10 couples will be selected across all social media pages to win the new TECNO Buds1. Offline N2million Couple Anniversary Sponsorship TECNO will sponsor two couples’ love anniversary celebrations worth N2million. To win, walk into any TECNO recommended retail stores nationwide, buy any Camon 16 series or Spark 5 Pro (3GB/64GB). You will receive a special TECNO Blue Valentine card, send the 10-digit code to the WhatsApp number – 09036438365. You will receive a message authenticating your entry. Every 50th entry on WhatsApp wins a TECNO LOVE Box. On February 11th, there will also be an electronic live draw on TECNO Facebook page for all the entries received on WhatsApp where 2 entries (must be a couple) will be picked to win N1million gift reward each. NB: Anniversary sponsorship means the brand will give you and your partner a special celebration worth N1million to mark your love journey. You could also get an instant N2,000 discount and a special gift box when you Purchase any Spark 5 Pro (3GB/64GB) from selected stores nationwide. TECNO Blue valentine competition will run from Feb 1st – Feb 14th, 2021 Terms and conditions apply.