The former secretary to the government of the federation, SGF, Senator Pius Anyim Pius, on Tuesday denied boycotting the zonal meeting of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, which took place at the Enugu State government house. Recall that there has been news circulating in Ebonyi State that the former Senate President Anyim Pius boycotted the Zonal Working Committee meeting of PDP, wherein the party discussed the Anambra State election. Anyim who spoke to newsmen in Abakaliki expressed regret that some mischief makers would be paddling lies. He said: “I was very early to the meeting and was very conspicuous in the meeting. I participated in every stage of the meeting. I was even the last to leave in the meeting. “This is because I was interacting with some stakeholders of PDP including the governor of Enugu state. And the meeting was not a caucus or leaders meeting. The meeting was purely for Anambra state election. “There are no issues of leadership, principally because the natural zone is in Enugu state government, and the governor was the host. And for effective coordination of Anambra election and other matters that he has been doing so wonderfully well. “We said let us formally name him (Ugwuanyi) the leader of the zone. And I was foremost in the whole arrangement and doing so because it is his natural place/ position and he is doing it very well. And so, there is no issue of the contest. No issue of the option or any other things else. “So, it is out of mere terrible desperation that anybody can lie to this extent. If anybody can lie to this extent that a meeting I officiated from the beginning to the end, participated prominently, that somebody will say that I was not in the meeting for any reason is pure desperation. And may God forgive the person. The former SGF, also dismissed the rumour making the rounds in Abakaliki metropolis, that he has a feud with the zonal caretaker committee chairman of PDP, Chief Ali Odefa. “There was no feud between me and Ali, Ali even followed me home. We have been here together. So, how can there be any feud between us, for what? “People can desperately lie like this? It is out of desperation. The meeting was just like an internal meeting to discuss the Anambra State election. It was not a large meeting. It was a meeting of selected few” he added.