Anambra State Police Command has recovered a gun stolen from one of its police stations which was attacked during the End SARS protest. The command also recovered seven other arms from armed robbers. A press release by the Anambra State police command Spokesperson, CSP Haruna Mohammed, which was made available to DAILY POST, stated that the command also apprehended seven armed robbery suspects and eight suspected members of secret cults. The statement read, “During the week under review, police operatives attached to the Anambra State Command have recorded cases of interest to members of the public. “On 19/2/2021 following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to Oko Division arrested one Blessing Uche Marcel Ukogu, ‘m’, aged about 25 years, of Akabor Village, Osunmeyi in Nnewi South LGA of Anambra State but residing at Abo-Dutse, Abuja. “Suspect allegedly stole a Toyota Corolla model 2005 from Abuja. Suspect and exhibit handed over to FCT Command for further investigation. “On 21/2/2021 at about 11:30am, following also intelligence report, police operatives attached to 3-3 Division, in collaboration with the local vigilante group, arrested one Debelechukwu Mbanugo, ‘m’, aged 20 years, of Nkwelle Ezunaka. “Exhibit recovered in his possession include one pump action rifle which he admitted to have stolen from 3-3 Police Station during the #Endsars protests. “On 21/2/2021, at about 8:am, following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to Okija Division, arrested one Chinaza Okoma, ‘m’, aged 25 years, and Onyebuchi Maduka, ‘m’, aged 24 years, both of 3-3 area, Onitsha. Suspects were arrested inside a residential apartment at Oghalebu, Okija with two pump action rifles, and eleven cartridges which they could not give satisfactory account of.” The release also stated that. “On 22/2/2021, at about 9am, following an intelligence report, Puff Adder operatives, in conjunction with a police patrol team attached to Ogbaru Division, arrested one Ebuka Obaze, ‘m’, aged 22 years, of Ochuche Village, Umuodo in Ogbaru LGA of Anambra State. Exhibit recovered in his possession include a cut to size locally made double barrel gun. “On the 23/2/2021, Puff Adder operatives, in conjunction with a patrol team attached to Otoucha Division, responded to a distress call around Igbariam and arrested one Paul Odowe, ‘m’, aged 29 years, from Ebonyi State. Suspect allegedly robbed a lady of her handset and other valuables at gunpoint. He voluntarily confessed and exhibits recovered in his possession include 3 phones, one pump action rifle, one cartridge and one unregistered motorcycle used in perpetrating the act. “On 26/2/2021, at 12:30am, following an intelligence report, a Police patrol team attached to Inland Town Division, arrested one Bright Blessed Nnakwe, ‘m’, aged 27 years, of Umueze Village, Anam in Anambra West LGA. Exhibit recovered in his possession include one English made pistol and a magazine.” On the cultists, Mohammed said, Command Special Anti-Cult Unit, arrested suspects who confessed to be members of a secret cult group called, “PAYTON CONFRATERNITY”, while another group arrested at Ogidi claimed to be members of Vikings Confraternity. He gave the name of the suspected members of the Payton confraternity to include; Duru David, ‘m’, aged 22 years; Ugochukwu Meniru, ‘m’, aged 20 years; Nwaoba Chukwudi, ‘m’, aged 20 years, Kalu Chukwudi, ‘m’, aged 18 years and Nyayelu Oputa, ‘m’, aged 18 years. Those of Vikings confraternity include; Okpoto Chukwudi, ‘m’, aged 20 years; Odo Arinze, ‘m’, aged 22 years; Eze Izuchukwu, ‘m’, aged 23 years, all natives of Izamgbo Town in Ohaumwu LGA of Ebonyi State. Mohammed said all cases are under investigation after which suspects will be charged to court for prosecution, while a total of four pump action rifles, one English made pistol, one locally made gun and eleven cartridges, were recovered.