A member of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Olubukola Oyewo Irepodun/ Ọlọrunda/ Orolu/ Osogbo, has called for calm and restoration of peace, and urged the people of the two communities to allow law and order to prevail. On Saturday, DAILY POST reports that two persons were killed during a community clash that ensued on Saturday between Ilobu and Erin-Osun in Irepodun Local Government Area of Osun State. Houses and properties were destroyed, while several persons sustained gunshot injuries in the communal crisis. Earlier on Sunday, the state government declared 24-hour curfew to douse tension in the troubled area. The lawmaker expressed concern over reports of violence between two townships resulting from disputes over parcels of land not unconnected with the ongoing census enumeration exercise. Hon. Oyewo appealed to the people of Ilobu and Erin-Osun to resist the temptation of picking up arms against each other at the slightest provocation. The lawmaker instead called on them to imbibe our well known civilised culture of sitting down to discuss issues and peacefully resolve problems in a mature manner. He said, “I believe that there’s no problem between any two or more people or communities that dialogue cannot resolve, since even reconciliation terms after whatever kind of battle are normally agreed on sitting at a round table. “Our communities must be ready to live together in peace since no development can take place in an atmosphere of recurring violence. “This avoidable needless descent to lawlessness should be of concern to all of us, especially coming from communities that have lived peacefully with one another from time immemorial. The lawmaker added that, “the relationships built over time should be used as a vehicle for coming together to look at whatever problem it is, so as not to allow the situation to snowball into needless loss of lives and property.” Hon. Oyewo commended the State Government and particularly Governor Gboyega Oyetola for interceding to quench the emerging crisis, and for the steps taken so far towards bringing peace to the areas. He urged all stakeholders to cooperate and ensure that lasting peace returns to the affected areas.