The secretary, Zamfara State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon.Ibrahim Umar alias Soni Dangaladima, has reacted to the reconciliation of former governor Abdulaziz Yari and his political rival, Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa. He described the reconciliation as an empty propaganda that can be thrown into another waste paper basket. Addressing newsmen in Gusau, the state capital, the scribe said that Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa has since 2019 lost his political relevance even in Tsafe Local Government Area where he comes from. Hon. Umar noted that senator Kabiru Garba Marafa is a power drunk politician who created serious friction that led to the deep cracks in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. “Everyone in this state is a living witness how senator Kabiru Garba Marafa destroyed his party in the state just because of own selfish interest” he lamented. The PDP secretary in the state explained that the so-called reconciliation between the two warring factions of APC in the state being led by former Governor Abdul Aziz Yari and senator Kabiru Garba Marafa does not in any way affect PDP as a party. He said that PDP is a different political party with viable structures, pointing out that their reconciliation does not make any difference as APC still remains an opposition party in the state. Hon. Umar stated that the main reason for bringing Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa and other political heavy weights in the system was that Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle needed a government of unity in the state so that there would be relative peace in the state. “The same Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa and Abdul Aziz Yari destroyed APC in the state due to their selfish interest” ” It is obviously not sound to notice that the that had triumphed itself to the position of leadership in the state since 1999 should be mired in such a shameful crisis but worst for the platform that has been forming government in the state since Nigeria recovered democracy from the military cabals in 1999. “While conceding that disagreements are inevitable in any human enterprise including politics, it must therefore be pointed out that having marketed as the party imbued with all it takes to govern a state, the infantile squabbles ravaging the party in the state are so disgraceful as they were a needless distraction. “In the coming days, weeks and months, we shall see who remains the political godfather in the APC circle in Zamfara state, whether there will be a new owner of APC in the state or the old brigades have continued to keep their control”. However, a commissioner in the Governor Matawalle’s cabinet, Hon. Surajo Mai Katako, who is a die- hard loyalist of Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa resigned his political appointment this morning after the statement of the state PDP secretary. Katako noted that he could not fold his hands and watch the state PDP secretary insulting senator Marafa, his political leader in the state, saying that the unwanted statement from the secretary warranted his resignation