Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has accused his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, of joining force with killer herdsmen to eliminate people living in some part of the country, including his state. The governor made the accusation on Monday in Makurdi, the state capital while addressing newsmen on the state of insecurity in the state. Governor Ortom, who said he was not ready to join issues with the Bauchi Governor over his comment on Fulani recently, stated that he had been compelled to break his silence. He advised his counterpart to revisit his oath of office, adding that the governor had failed in keeping his oath of protecting lives and properties of his electorate. “I’m beginning to think that my counterpart in Bauchi is part of the terrorist Fulani Organisation terrorising the country. “The governor should go back and reread his oath of office whether allowing foreign Fulani Herdsmen to come into Nigeria is part of the oath. “I think he is part of the conspiracy to wipe away some people including Benue State”, Ortom Stated. Earlier, Ortom said the people of the state were not against any tribe residing in the state but that they were rather against terrorists, killer herdsmen, and bandits. “Every tribe has the right to reside in Benue State, so long they respect the rule of law, but as long as they refuse to abide by the law, we will make sure that the law catches up with you. “We will make sure the security agency arrest and prosecute you and if you are found guilty, you will be jailed. “We are against bandits and terrorists, you can see how we disarmed them here in Benue, when Gana was disturbing the peace of the state, we placed N50 million for anyone with useful information about his activities. “No kidnapper in Benue will be spared. Whoever you are, we will go after you and make sure you are apprehended. “The issue of Fulani terrorists, we will not permit them and there is no room for them here in Benue State. “If you want to do cattle business, whether Fulani or anybody, you must embrace ranching. As long as this government is concerned, no room for open grazing,” Governor Ortom added.