The Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, AYCF, has called on Abdulrasheed Bawa, Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to punish all corrupt Nigerians, irrespective of their position. AYCF National President, Yerima Shettima said Bawa should pursue justice within the armbit of the law. Shettima made the call while commending President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing a young man in the person of Bawa to head the anti-graft agency. He said the appointment of Bawa was an indication that time was ripe for “a shift from the old brigade to young turks, who have the productive energy to turn around the fortunes of this nation, at critical point in our development history”. Shettima, in a statement he signed, said as a youth group, it was not only happy with the integration of young people in key governance roles but has confidence in “young, brilliant and experienced men and women in today’s Nigeria, just like Bawa”. The group, however, called on the new EFCC boss “to justify the confidence reposed in him, not only by the Presidency, but also the Nigerian youth, “who see him as one proof that young people can apply special skills to boost nation building”. He urged the EFCC boss to deal with the challenges of financial crimes across the nation, charge suspects to court, using strong evidence and avoid trial by the media – as was the case before he came in. The AYCF National President noted that Buhari’s choice of EFCC Chairman like Bawa was also an indication that “Nigeria’s future would hopefully be bright, with the elderly playing mentoring and advisory roles while youths spin the wheel of governance”. The AYCF declared: “We are fully prepared to protect him because he is one of our own and we urge all Nigerian youth to rally around the EFCC boss with all their legitimate might. “Our call for the EFCC boss is to go after all criminals and ensure they get punished for their sins against the Nigerian nation, regardless of how highly-placed they are and from whichever part of the country. He should pursue justice within the ambit of the law. This is our simple prayer”.