Abuja’s City Gate came alive as top Yoruba Akpala singer, Alhaji Sule Aloa Malaika and movie actor, Femi Adebayo, on Monday led other brand ambassadors of T Pumpy Concept Limited, developers of Abuja-based Pumpy Estates in a road show.   The road show took place at the city gate along the Musa Yar’Adua Expressway, Abuja.  According to the management of the company, the campaign was aimed at informing Nigerians that they still have the opportunity to own a genuine plot of land free from land speculation in the FCT. Speaking during the road show, Adebayo said, “We have genuine lands in our estates at Guzape Karasa, Kyami, Lugbe, Wasa, Wawa, Kuje, Kwali (Kiddies Estate), Katanpe Extension with C-of-Os).  “All building plans are dully signed with development control approval, documents are authentic and highly verifiable. “Some of these prototypes have a space for fully detached 2 bed room BQs. “Our payment plans include: outright and 6 months installment. “Building prototypes include 5/4 bedroom duplex, 4 bedroom duplex, 4 bedroom penthouse as well as 3 bedroom bungalows.” Pumpy Concept LTD, a registered company that deals in the sales of lands and estate plots since 2009, has over the past ten years built a reputation as an industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction.  T. Pumpy Concept Limited is a progressive property developer that prides itself on its proven track records, passion and commitment to deliver superior value in design, quality and services in our developments to our customers.   T. Pumpy Concept is a registered company that deals majorly in the sales of lands and estate plots. The company has been in existence since 2009, and it’s totally committed to making its utmost contribution in the development process of our environment in the aforementioned area, for the betterment of all Nigerians.  The T-Pumpy Concept team has decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve.  Call us today: Corporate Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja. Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja. Follow us on our social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380  