The Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan on Tuesday, confirmed that
bandits killed 23 persons in attacks across five local government areas of the state. This was contained in a statement he issued on Tuesday in Kaduna. He said one bandit was neutralized as citizens repelled an attack in Chikun local government area of the state stressing that Air platforms are presently engaging bandits in the state. “Following the security situation across the state within the last 24 hours, the Kaduna State Government has received reports from security agencies of the killing of 23 citizens in different attacks on soft targets in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Chikun, Igabi and Kauru local government areas.” “The attacks on soft targets in these local government areas occurred around Kaduna state’s boundaries with neighbouring states. “In Birnin Gwari LGA, 10 citizens were killed by bandits in an attack on Ungwan Gajere, Kutemeshi ward. They are: Abdu Hasan, Sufyanu Musa, Faisal Zubairu, Abdullahi, Hasan, Ali Abdu, Rabiu Aliyu, Zubairu Yau, Bukar Yusuf, Mamman Ibrahim, Dankande Musa.” “The following were injured in the attack: Baushi Alu, Rabe Sani Usama Sani “In Igabi local government area, bandits shot dead one Dayyabu Yahuza between Sarkin Baka and Dankyawai village, near Gidan Kurmi. “In Giwa local government area, armed bandits invaded Janbaba village, one Yakubu Sule was shot dead. “In Kishisho village, Kauru local government area, gunmen suspected to be from a neighbouring state killed five persons, listed as: Danlami Sunday, Abbas Abou, Sati Yakubu Shaba John, John Francis,” the statement said “In Chikun local government area, five citizens were killed by bandits in Gwagwada-Kasaya village in Kunai ward. They are: “Habila Ibrahim, Samaila Audu, John Musa , Birnin Aboki, Ali Aboki “Similarly, in Agwa, Chikun LGA, one Bitrus Joseph was shot dead in an attack by bandits. “Also in Chikun local government area, one bandit was killed near Bugai, when members of the community repelled an attack. “Receiving the reports, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, expressed sadness over the attacks. “The Governor sent his condolences to the families that lost their loved ones. He offered prayers for the repose of the souls of the slain, and a speedy recovery for the injured. “As of the time of this security update, the air platforms of the Nigerian Air Force are trailing and engaging bandits in some locations in Chikun, Birnin Gwari, Giwa and Igabi LGAs, and citizens will be briefed upon the receipt of operational feedback. “Governor El-Rufai is wishing the military success in the ongoing operation as he awaits reports.” The statement further added