As the All Progressives Congress continues with its ongoing membership registration and revalidation exercise across the electoral wards of the seventeen local government areas of Abia State, a two-time Governorship candidate and chieftain of the APC, Alex Otti has revalidated his membership of the party. The exercise was done at his Umuru Nvosi ward in Isiala Ngwa South Local Government Area of Abia State and was witnessed by the APC Registration/ Revalidation Committee from the National Secretariat Abuja led by Ambassador Bala Mohammed Maigairi. Otti while speaking after the revalidation exercise, thanked the APC registration committee for the visit and assured that he was disposed to giving them the necessary support they would require throughout their stay in Abia. Otti restated his position that his decision to quit his individual comfort zone and get actively involved in politics was an altruistic decision aimed at meeting the leadership needs of Abians, and regretted that Abia is a state of contradictions, because in spite of the human and material resources which the state is blessed with, yet, the state continues to suffer from leadership deficiency at the expense of Abians. He appealed to the committee members to ensure that materials meant for the exercise will be made available so that those wishing to join the party wouldn’t be denied the opportunity, insisting that a political party without members is bound to go into extinction. The ex-Group Managing Director of Diamond Bank Plc, urged his supporters and other Abians to do so as it would give them the opportunity to play active roles in making leadership choices for good governance in Abia State. In the same vein, a former Abia lawmaker that represented Umuahia South State Constituency in the State House of Assembly, Hon. Chijioke Nwachukwu, Saturday, revalidated his membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The revalidation exercise was held at Ubakala ward B, in Umuahia South local government area and was presented with APC Membership Revalidation card by the Umuahia South APC chairman, Chief David Edoh flanked by the Deputy Chairman, Hon Emenike Uluocha and Chief Ibeku. Hon Nwachukwu thanked the party leadership for embarking on the exercise as he reassured that APC has gained grassroots support and popularity, admonishing the Registration/Revalidation committee to ensure nobody was denied the membership of the party.