The management of University of Ibadan has banned students from all the hostels in the institution. DAILY POST gathered that the ban of students from hostels in the institution is due to the coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. The affected students according to DAILY POST findings are both the undergraduate and the post-graduate students. Director of Public Communication, University of Ibadan, Mr. Olatunji Oladejo in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Thursday, added that the move was to adhere with COVID-19 protocols. Oladejo added that no student would be accommodated on campus henceforth. He said that the 2020/2021 first semester lectures will be delivered online. Oladejo insisted that no student will be accommodated on campus. He said, “Management has noted the information trending on the social media indicating that the University has published allocation of students into their respective Halls of Residence and students are expected to make payments. “The University hereby wishes to inform the new students and the general public to disregard the information as STUDENT REGISTRATION PORTAL HAS NOT BEEN OPENED. Kindly beware! “Management wishes to restate as contained in the University’s Official Bulletin No. 4353 of 14 January, 2021 entitled APPROVED REVISED ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 2018/2019 as follows: “In approving the Calendar, Senate noted the prevailing circumstances occasioned by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to comply with the protocols established for the control of the spread of the pandemic. “It, therefore, agreed that the 2020/2021 First Semester Lectures will be delivered online. In this regard, ‘NO STUDENT WILL BE ACCOMMODATED ON CAMPUS.’ “New students are to please note that the opening of the registration portal and the orientation programme for 2020/2021 session will commence on or before Saturday, 20 February, 2021. “Details of Registration Procedure/Guideline will be available on the University website www.ui.edu.ng soon.”