The immediate past lawmaker, representing Igalamela Odolu Local Government in the Kogi State House of Assembly, Elder Friday Sanni Makama says the opposition People’s Democratic Party, (PDP), is already dead and buried in the state. Makama stated this in Odolu on Monday, while officially decamping with over 7500 supporters of the opposition party to the ruling All Progressive Congress, (APC). The former lawmaker said the PDP is totally disconnected with the dynamics of the political history of Kogi State adding that they have already lost their ground, and should accept it in good faith. He said his defection to the ruling APC was for the interest of his people, stressing that he came into the party to liberate his local government from the shackles of underdevelopment. He, however, debunked claims that he is joining the ruling party to create factions. The former Youth leader conceded to the comment of the opposition party PDP who had earlier reacted to his defection that he can’t stand on the opposition side because of his selfish interest. According to him, he joined the PDP in 2007 but discovered that his values were not properly appreciated. “PDP is dead and buried in Kogi State. I have studied the prevailing circumstances of Nigeria politics and that of Kogi State. It is important to state here categorically that my people want me to join the progressive-minded individuals which is a symbol of the APC. “I can’t continue to be in the opposition while my people will be suffering and dying because they could not feel the presence of the Government in power. ” I am a man who is ready to die for my people. The only way to liberate my people is to pitch a tent with the present government in power. Those saying I am a pushover are just wasting their time and energy. My decision to join the APC is not to cause a faction but bring total liberation for my people in Odolu Local Government” he stated. While pledging his unalloyed support for the government of Yahaya Bello, Makama noted that the governor has made history to be the first man in Kogi State to indicate interest in running for the presidential seat.