The Zamfara State Police Command has expressed resolve and commitment to get rid of all criminals who refuse to renounce their activities and embrace peace in the state. The Command also disclosed that five kidnapped victims were rescued in Kaura Namoda, Birnin Magaji and Gusau Local Government Areas through police operative attached to Operation Puff Adder led by DPO Laura Namoda police Division. Zamfara Police Spokesman, SP Mohammed Shehu, made this known in a press statement in Gusau. Shehu reported that the police facilitated the unconditional release of five Kidnapped victims, who were abducted behind Namoda Secondary School and Zangon Danbade areas of Kaura Namoda. “All the rescued victims were medically treated and debriefed by the Police and later reunited with their families. efforts to apprehend the perpetrators is ongoing,” he added. The statement noted that another team of Police operatives attached to “Operation Puff Adder” on market patrol at Nasarawa Godel in Birnin Magaji Local Government Area received an intelligence report about some cows reasonably suspected to have been stolen somewhere in Maradun Local Government Area. “The report was effectively utilised, where eleven cows were recovered and taken to the State CID in Gusau for discreet investigation and identification of rightful owners.” “A report was received at Tudun Wada Police station from one Hajiya Zainab Saidu of Gidan Dawa area in Gusau that on the same day, she parked her Motor Vehicle Honda Accord Ash with Reg. Number AA 223BKA at opposite Sunny Fast Food, Tudun wada and entered the market, immediately, unidentified criminals came and stole the vehicle “The DPO Tudun wada quickly led Police operatives and pursued the criminals, where the Vehicle was abandoned and recovered at Premier road area, Gusau. All the suspects fled to an unknown destination before the arrival of the Police. Discrete investigation is being carried out by the State CID Gusau with a view to arresting the suspects and charging them to court for prosecution.”