The outgoing Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, has described his tenure as full of intrigues while deputizing his boss, Governor Oluwarotim Akeredolu. Ajayi whose tenure as Deputy Governor will be terminated on Wednesday, stated that the completion of his term was almost inconceivable due to what he described as the many battles he faced. Akeredolu will on Wednesday be sworn-in for a second term, together with his Deputy Governor-Elect, Lucky Ayedatiwa who was picked as Ajayi’s replacement. Midway into the first term of Akeredolu as Governor, the embattled Deputy Governor had fallen out with his boss over his ambition to succeed Akeredolu. After dumping the All Progressives Congress, APC, he moved to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, where he failed to secure the party’s ticket. Within a few months in PDP, Ajayi moved again to the Zenith Labour Party, ZLP, where he became the standard-bearer of the party for the October 10, 2020 governorship election. During the governorship poll, the Deputy Governor came third with his boss Akeredolu of the APC emerging winner of the election. Meanwhile, there were failed attempts to impeach Ajayi as Akeredolu’s deputy as nine lawmakers of the Ondo State House of Assembly refused to support the action of their colleagues, a move the Chief Judge of state did not also approve over non adherence to the constitutional requirements for impeachment by the Assembly. In his farewell message while thanking God for unfailing grace and the tenacity of the Ondo State Judiciary, which Ajayi said was adhesive to the spirit and letter of the constitution, he stated that he is leaving his office unruffled. “My profound appreciation also goes to the nine Honourable Members of the Ondo State House of Assembly, who are code named the Integrity Group, stood on principle of rule law and truly upheld the integrity of the legislature and against all odds (including facing physical harm and political intimidation), like the Rock of Gibraltar against executive recklessness. I’m happy today that through our little efforts, democratic institutions in Ondo State and in Nigeria have been strengthened. “I’m most grateful to the people of Ondo State, who gave me the mandate to serve them as deputy governor. I also appreciate them for acknowledging and supporting my potential to provide a credible alternative towards providing deliverable services to the people without selfish profiteering. “I humbly urge Christians, Muslims and all well meaning Nigerians to continue to pray for the peace and progress of Ondo and Nigeria. “I wish Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN and the new Deputy Governor, Lucky Ayedatiwa well in their administration,” he said.