A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Ambassador Abayomi Nurain Mumuni, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency, increase security presence in Nigerian borders. Mumuni noted that Buhari should strengthen the borders and increase the presence of security personnel in order to make life unbearable for criminal elements. He made this disclosure when he revalidated his membership with the All Progressives Congress (APC) at his Ward F2, Unit 16, Surulere, Lagos State. DAILY POST recalls that the APC chieftain who spoke with journalists after the exercise, contested the gubernatorial election on the platform of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), in 2011 in Lagos State. Mumuni while speaking said that Buhari should increase the number of security agents at the borders so as to make it difficult for terrorists to enter the country. “The President should strengthen the borders and increase the presence of security personnel to make life unbearable for criminal elements. “What you see going on is no longer kidnapping, it is another pattern of terrorism, and majority of those guys aren’t Nigerians. They are cross-border terrorists who take advantage of the porous nature of our border. “They are into kidnapping to fund their acts of terrorism and Nigeria is so big that they can enter with ease through our borders, make money through kidnapping and go back without being apprehended. Mumuni added that the membership registration and revalidation exercise is an opportunity for members, supporters and sympathisers of APC to be part of decision-making in the party. He said, “The history of APC is a combined effort between ACN, ANPP and our former party, CPC. Talking about the revalidation, we have a lot of supporters that are not card-carrying members. “We also have sympathisers who have voters’ card but do not possess membership cards. This process will serve as a privilege for them to obtain the party’s membership cards and become registered members. “In doing this, they can play active roles as members during the 2023 elections. The good thing about the whole process is that it is flexible once you have a passport photograph and means of identification (ID card). “So revalidation is a privilege for card-carrying members, sympathizers and supporters and other members of the public.”