Former Central Bank Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has said that his quest to become governor of Anambra State is not a quest to enrich himself or better his life, as God has blessed him with everything he needs. Soludo is an aspirant in the Anambra governorship election, and is hoping to fly the flag of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the November 6th election. The professor of Econometrics who spoke to some journalists in Awka yesterday said he is in the race because he believes that God did not make a mistake by making him an Anambra indigene. “I have finished with the world, and I have also done my bit in Nigeria. I now want to help develop my own state. I am not running for this election so I can make money, or so I can enhance my CV. I am in this race to develop my home state. “In my 30s, I achieved everything there was to be achieved. I have travelled to all continents of the world and consulted for over 20 top financial institutions of the world. I am here to change the state for good. “If anyone thinks that governance is about going to Abuja to collect money, use part of it to pay workers and use the rest to award contracts, then that person is mistaken. If that is what governance is about, I won’t be in the race because that is something my grandmother can do. “We are talking about using our contacts all over the world to generate funds that we can use to develop our state at little or no cost to us. It is something I can do, and by the way, I have not seen anyone who is in the race, who has the contacts I have or even the pedigree.” Soludo said he has discovered that whatever he touched changed for good, and that he is in the race to change Anambra State. “We have touched many institutions and they changed, and it is time to touch Anambra. After all the work I have done in various places, I asked myself what else I can do as a sign of gratitude to God, and I said, let God use me as a gift to change Anambra State. That is why I am here,” Soludo said.