The governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi and younger brother Austin Umahi, who was formerly the national vice chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, south-east zone, on Tuesday officially joined the ruling All Progressive Congress, APC. Umahi and brother officially registered in APC at his country home in Uburu polling unit in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The governor who was issued the membership card while addressing party members and supporters said the APC would completely take over the zone by 2023. The registration according to reports validated Umahi’s defection to the national ruling party after he defected from the Peoples Democratic Party in 2020. The Governor’s brother and former National Vice Chairman of PDP, South-East Zonal Chairman, Austin Umahi also defected and registered with the All Progressives Congress. The Governor stated that from the records available, the state is targeting over 1million registered members in the state. Umahi who expressed optimism with the turn out of APC members for the revalidation exercise also noted that the South-East zone is now All Progressives Congress APC. He applauded the developmental strides of President Mohammadu Buhari in the south-east zone which endeared him to the people of the zone. He noted that those attacking his person on social media and sponsoring media reports against his government are exhibiting acts of frustration and assured the people that no amount of sponsored media reports would deter him from delivering laudable projects to the people. On his part, the Former National Zonal Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Deacon Austin Umahi said he would deploy the formula he used in winning elections for the PDP on the APC and expressed joy that the people are trooping out in their numbers to register with the APC. According to him; “I am so excited because the Lord has done it. I am proud to be an APC member today. I will say so many things about the other party on the appointed day. I know the winning mechanism and I will reintroduce it in APC. Ebonyi State has started a movement. Very soon, the remnant of PDP in Abuja will be put to shame” he said.