One elderly man, Dikko Bagudu, a resident of Akwando village in Kachia Local Government Area of Kaduna State, has been killed by armed bandits. Another armed bandits in Sabon Bini to Rikau, barricaded the road in krabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed one Ibrahim Abdulmumini, a resident of Rikau village, according to a security report. A statement BY the state Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, explained that one Sahabi Shafiu, son of the village head of Rikau, was also injured. It was reported that the both victims were returning from the weekly market at Sabon Birni when they were intercepted by the bandits. Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed sadness over the reports and condoled the families of both persons who were killed, while offering prayers for the repose of their souls. He also wished the injured victim in Rikau village a quick recovery. In another development, security agencies have reported the accidental detonation of a substance at a residence in Ungwan Mangworo, Igabi Local Government Area. The statement explained that the children were playing in the area and picked up the material from a nearby farm and began to play with it, not knowing what it was, adding that in the process, it was accidentally detonated. Seven of the children were injured by the explosion, and are now receiving treatment at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika. While reacting to the incident, Governor Nasir El-Rufai stated his relief that the injured children were already receiving treatment. He tasked security agencies to conduct a detailed investigation into the incident and urged citizens to increase their vigilance towards the presence of such items around inhabited locations. Security agencies have been duly informed of the incident for thorough investigations, to forestall future occurrences. The statement advised citizens to contact the Kaduna State Security Operations Room with information about dangerous or explosive materials found anywhere around the State, on 09034000060 and 08170189999.