Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has directed security operatives in the state to go after perpetrators of the recent isolated killings in Jos South and Riyom Local Government Councils. The Governor also directed the Plateau Peace Building Agency and the Plateau Inter-Religious Council to intensify their mediation efforts across the state, especially in areas where there are disagreements that are capable of causing a breach of the peace. He however expressed outrage over the incidences recorded in Chol, Vwang District; and Tamborong, Ganawuri District in the two aforementioned Local Government Areas. Lalong, through his Director Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Simon Macham, said the recurring incidences of such isolated attacks are “unacceptable and totally condemnable”. He said such occurrences reoccur partly because some of the persons behind such attacks are yet to be arrested and brought to justice. According to him, “During both attacks in the two areas , lives were lost, animals killed and crops destroyed. The Governor maintained that there is no justification for the killings, as no one is permitted to take the law into his hands. He therefore ordered the security agencies to do everything possible and arrest the perpetrators as well as go to the root of the criminal conduct which is clearly meant to resuscitate violence in the State and thwart the peace currently prevailing. He said in his administration’s efforts to stem the tide against criminals, “Recently we acquired and launched 50 patrol vehicles and 200 motorcycles for use by our security agencies. “Our expectation is that these attacks will not only be prevented, but wherever any is recorded, the perpetrators will be swiftly arrested and brought to justice. I expect to see a drastic change from now onwards on how we respond to these unfortunate acts”, he explained. Adding that, “Our people deserve to live in peace and pursue their legitimate means of livelihood without fear of being attacked or killed”. The Governor urged the citizens to assist the security agencies and relevant Government bodies with the necessary intelligence to enable them arrest the fleeing attackers and also get to the root cause of the recurring incidences. The Governor however, commended community leaders within the communities where the killings occurred for making efforts to calm nerves and also supporting Government efforts to restore normalcy and build confidence. Meantime, the State Police Command, has through its Public Relations Officer, ASP Gabriel Ogaba, confirmed the attack, explaining that, “On 1/7/2021, the Plateau State Police Command received a report of an attack at Chol Village Vwang District of Jos South L.G.A by yet to be identified armed men. “Unfortunately, six persons and five cows were shot dead. Team of Policemen and STF sector 6 personnel were immediately deployed to the location to beef up security.” Ogaba added that investigation is ongoing to trail the perpetrators of the act and bring them to justice.