The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kaduna State Chapter, has sympathised with parents and relatives of the kidnapped students of Bethel Baptist High School, Damishi, Chikun Local Government Area of the state. This was contained in a statement by Abraham Alberah Catoh, State Publicity Secretary, of the party. “It is no longer news that Kaduna State has become the hotbed of Kidnappings, armed banditry and other heinous crimes in Nigeria today. “The recent abduction of over 121 students of the Bethel Baptist High School, along Kujama Road, Kaduna by bandits (kidnappers), the kidnapping of babies, nurses and security guards at the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre, Zaria, the abduction of a family of 8 and 4 others at Kofar Gayan and 3 students and staff of Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria, and so many unreported incidents in some suburbs of Kaduna, as well as villages within the state, is not only alarming but, frightening.” “The level of insecurity in Kaduna state, where people find it difficult to sleep and go about their normal day to day businesses, parents are scared of sending their wards to school, economic and social activities are threatened and hampered. “The PDP is disturbed by the situation where criminals have freely turned the kidnapping of innocent school students and other vulnerable citizens for ransom, into a lucrative business, following the lacklustre approach and media propaganda under the Elrufai’s administration in the fight against banditry/kidnapping in our dear state. “The PDP urges the State governor to as a matter of urgency stop his demolition of businesses and residences of citizens of the State, as this inhuman exercise has a multiplier effect in increase in crime rate across the State. “This indicates the failure of governance under Governor Nasir Elrufai APC-led administration in the state and validates concerns that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its administration is bereft of solutions to fight and nip in the bud the spate of insecurity under his watch. “PDP challenges the Governor to wake up to his responsibilities of securing lives and property of the citizens of the State, by changing his strategy in the fight against these crimes. “The PDP sympathises with the families of the kidnapped victims and the residents of Malali Low Cost,whose houses were demolished recently by the Elrufai government,” the statement read. Abducted Bethel Baptist students doing well – Bandits confirm