BBNaija winner, Olamilekan Agbeleshe, popularly known as Laycon performed for the Grammy recording academy on Friday. Laycon thrilled fans in the latest episode of ‘Press play at home’ as he performed “All over me”. His performance seems to have shut the mouth of those who opined that he is not a good singer and his win from BBNaija was out of pity. Grammys on its website describing Laycon wrote: “He comes from a line of young Afrobeat singers keeping the genre on the lips of many, saying, “For a fresh example of this, meet Laycon, a Nigerian Afrobeats/Afrorap artist who makes performing this music seem as natural as breathing.” His performance has gained him more recognition and applause from fans all over the world. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter:  @Ninti31 “I have always seen you as overhyped and don’t bother streaming or listening to your songs But I repent from that today after watching this. You’re what icons really say you are. You’re very good. Wow, that was an awesome performance. Respect.” @Dekingkudos “I never knew Laycon was this good. You are musically talented,as in it crystal clear that you are not forcing it. I’m so proud of you man. No amount of hate will ever bring you down!” @Cas_trippleD “OMG this is so great, performed for Grammy, I mean Grammy is aware of Laycon, we are getting there, ICONS.” @Roseji “I don’t see myself getting over this performance soon. The Recording Academy posting Laycon on their numerous social media platforms is a huge feat. That live performance was so lit.” @Queenjeigh “A prophet is without honour in his own country. Thank goodness for his disciples (iCONs) international recognition is rolling in.” @Newbie_jummy “LAYCON is one of the talented songwriters and musicians from Nigeria. His performance was wonderful and natural and I can see why he is called the KING OF AFRORAP.” @AriseNaija “ In less than a year @itsLaycon has really proven to be god in a human body.” @MiguelAmorx “Omo! Laycon can really sing! I never saw that part coming! More blessings G!” @Ravhin_elf “A big win for a talented soul.” @Confy_woko “Laycon is here to stay.”