Pastor Kunle Garb, the Nigerian who was arrested by the police authorities from Benin Republic for resisting encroachment on Nigerian territory has been released. Garb was arrested at Igbokofi, Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State by Gendarmes (Benin Republic police) in a Gestapo style. DAILY POST reports that the arrest of the Pastor attracted the attention of Governor Dapo Abiodun and Senator Tolu Odebiyi of Ogun West, who cried out to the Federal Government for its intervention in securing the arrest of Garb and forestalling similar incidents. Reacting to his release on Wednesday, Garb appreciated God for giving him the gift of life, saying “though passing through Benin Republic is not palatable, God granted me the grace to pass through it unhurt.” He narrated that he was “unlawfully arrested and detained by Benin Republic police officers on the Thursday, 24th day of June, 2021 right inside Igbokofi market that belongs to Nigeria but now being claimed by Benin republic since 2008.” Garb said he was taken away for “defending Nigeria, my fatherland from being encroached into by Benin Republic.” While saying he has no regrets in all he went through in the hands of Benin Republic government for Nigeria, Garb requested that Ijoun-Igbokofi road should be made motorable. He asked government to ensure the speedy “return of the pillars removed by Benin Republic and replanted to favour their country.” Garb also wants security agencies of Nigeria to have their duty post in Igbokofi, especially the police, which he said have their post ready in the community. Igbokofi market, according to him, is very strategic in the fight “to reclaim the stolen land by Benin Republic,” saying it must be reclaimed as soon as possible. “Igbokofi people must be made to feel the presence of all the arms of Nigerian Government by providing water, hospital and security. “Without doing the above, my unlawful arrest and detention will be a waste and I’ll see it as a punishment in vain,” he said. Boundary dispute: Abiodun cries out as Benin Republic police arrest Nigerian activist in Ogun