A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Chukwuemeka Eze, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to penalize Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State for allegedly turning project commissioning into an unlawful campaign. In a statement issued to DAILY POST on Sunday, Eze, a former national spokesman of the defunct New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP), said Wike has continued to carry on with political rallies round the state inviting national figures and using the avenue to speak ill of President Mohammadu Buhari and the ruling APC in disregard for the law regulating political and electoral activities. He opined that individuals are free to exercise their right to political associations as expressly provided in the constitution, stressing that the right to hold political rallies when the ban on such activities is still very much in force, like Governor Wike, is disregard for the law regulating electoral concerns. Eze reiterated calls to INEC to address Governor Wike’s disdainful attitude towards the provisions of the electoral act to avoid the difficult situation that may arise from a looming floodgate of deprecatory actions against the provisions of the law. He pointed out that section 99 of the nation’s electoral act frowns at Wike’s infractions as he may be incurring huge liabilities for himself and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). According to him, “Wike pays heavily for live coverage, thus he talks to Nigerians almost on a daily basis, attacking and making caricatures of the President, insulting Nigeria’s Transportation Minister, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi and robbing the APC in the mud for no just cause, with public funds”. “On several occasions and recently too, Wike incited Nigerians against the President Buhari-led federal government, and asked the masses to vote out the All Progressives Congress whereas 2023 is still a bit far and the embargo on political activities has not yet been lifted, “Eze concluded. Meanwhile, Governor Nyesom Wike has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to live up to his constitutional duty of securing the country. The Rivers Governor said Buhari was not made president to obtain foreign loans alone but to ensure the protection of Nigerians. He spoke at a commissioning event in Etche Local Government Area of the state Wike cautioned the president against shifting his role of protecting Nigerians to governors. He pointed out that Buhari appointed heads of security agencies in the country, hence he can not ask governors to take charge of security.