The Oyo State Police Command has warned owners of hotels, recreational facilities and clubs against the use of their premises for cult-related activities. The command made this known on Wednesday. Our correspondent gathered that some cult groups have perfected plans to celebrate today (7th July) as cultists day in the state. It was gathered that the celebration, which will be used to initiate new members, may lead to pockets of violence in some parts of the state. The command, while confirming the planned initiation, warned hoteliers, house owners, recreational facilities and clubs not to accommodate cult-related activities in their facilities. The command in a statement made available to DAILY POST through its Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso, advised all groups that intend to jeopardise the peace in the state to shelve the plan. Osifeso noted that credible information made available to the command said that cultists have finalised plans to celebrate what is known as 7/7. He however said that the command with other security agencies would clamp down on the organisers of such an event. Osifeso, while speaking further, advised members of the public to be vigilant. He also urged residents to go about their lawful activities and report any activities that may lead to violence to the nearest police station. “Credible and duly processed intelligence by The Oyo State Police Command’s intelligence apparatus has revealed that some hoodlums/ Cultists have finalized preparations to adopt and celebrate the 7th of July, 2021, popularly known as “7/7” with retribution among rival gangs and large-scale violence in the State. “In view of this, the Commissioner of police CP Ngozi Onadeko, fdc is issuing a strong warning to any person (s) or group under any of these categories with the intent to scuttle the relative tranquility enjoyed in the State to shelve such plans as the Command would not sit in docile stupefaction while hoodlums have a field day,” the statement read. “Consequently upon this, the Police Command, in collaboration with sister security agencies will clamp down heavily on organizers, leaders and progenitors of such sinister plans whose aims are targeted at triggering needless episodes of retributions, bloodletting and destruction of innocent lives and properties. “To this end, parents, guardians and persons of influence are advised to caution their wards and proteges to refrain from any unlawful gathering or assembly with intent to breach the peace of the land as the State Police Command will arrest and prosecute violators. “Also, hoteliers, proprietors of lounges and other recreational facilities are advised against consenting to the use of their facilities/properties to aid cult related activities as owners of such facilities are liable for prosecution as well. “While expressing confidence in the measure of proactivity already in play, the Commissioner of Police wishes to urge all and sundry to remain law abiding and vigilant enough to report any suspicious activity to the Police command or nearest Police formation, and to go about their businesses without the fear of harassment or molestation from anyone.”