Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, on Thursday, said that the fight against corruption in Nigeria requires all hands to be on the deck for it to be won. Bawa also expressed optimism that Nigeria would get out of its present predicament, occasioned by corruption. The EFCC boss stated this during an anti-corruption sensitisation at Kwara State College of Health Technology, Offa. Bawa, represented by the Head, Public Affairs unit of Ilorin Zonal Office of EFCC, Ayodele Babatunde, said that other forms of crimes, such as kidnapping, armed robbery and cybercrime, also contributed to the country’s problems. He said that once Nigerians, both in the private and public sectors, embraced the culture of accountability, service, hard work and national pride, things would be better for the country. “The anti-corruption crusade was part of the preventive measures by the commission to sensitise Nigerians on the ills of corruption and win public support for the fight,” he said. Bawa, whose address centred on: “EFCC and the Role of the Youth in Curbing Cybercrime,” bemoaned the effects of drug abuse and internet fraud. Bawa urged Nigerians to ensure that the love of the country was paramount in their heart, especially while discharging their duties. According to him, only a patriotic mind will have the capacity to resist and fight corruption in his/her sphere of influence. “EFCC believes that the fight against corruption requires all hands to be on the deck for it to be won. “Therefore, it is within your powers to secure a corruption-free system for Nigeria, if you so desire. “I will urge you to take up this challenge today as we work together to take Nigeria to greater heights,” the EFCC chairman said. He noted that the failure of Nigerians to stop corruption at the initial stage had made the country to be struggling with its debilitating pain. “As consequences of our lack of proactive response, we are now burdened by a dwindling economy, infrastructure problem, ineffective health system, problematic academic system, unemployment and insecurity,” he said.