Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has re-awarded the Ibadan circular road project to a new contractor. DAILY POST recalls that the 32 kilometres project was earlier awarded to ENL consortium by the immediate past Governor, Abiola Ajimobi. Makinde who took over the mantle of leadership in the state from Ajimobi a few months ago stopped the contractor due to what he described as the slow pace of work on the project. The contractor handling the project through its Chairman, Clement Adesuyi Hastrrup had earlier, during an interview with journalists threatened not to leave the site until a sum of N10.6 billion is paid. The contractor said the governor has no right to re-award the contract until he received the money. Makinde has, however, dared the contractor by re-awarding the contract to a new firm. It was gathered that the 32 kilometres project has been extended to 110 kilometres by Makinde. Makinde explains why he sacked contractor handling Ibadan circular road It was gathered that the Oyo State government approved the award of the contract for the construction of the 110km Ibadan Circular Road to a new concessionaire named Messrs SEL-Vydra Consortium, at the cost of N138.2 billion. The project, which is to be executed on a Build, Operate and Transfer concession arrangement, is also classified as a User-Pays toll road. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Thursday, noted that portions awarded to ENL at the cost of N67bn represent only a third of the entire 110km stretch of the all-important road now awarded at the cost of N138.2bn. He added that the award of the contract was one of the last assignments undertaken by the State Executive Council, which was dissolved shortly after its meeting on Tuesday, June 29, 2021. Adisa maintained that other contracts awarded by the Council include the 34.85 km Oyo-Iseyin Road; Isaba-Ogundoyin road, Eruwa; BCJ/Railway Crossing/NIHORT Road and the Kolapo Ishola GRA roads.