The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, has strongly condemned the attack on Sunday Igboho’s residence. DAILY POST had reported that yet-to-be-identified gunmen in the early hours of Thursday attacked the Soka Ibadan residence of Yoruba Nation Agitator, Sunday Igboho. It was also gathered that seven persons were killed and his wife kidnapped during the attack. Reacting, Gani Adams in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Aderemi, said the attack was a predetermined ploy to silence Igboho from the struggle for the Yoruba nation. He warned that if Igboho was killed in the attack, it might lead to a raging war. Describing the development as ‘unfortunate, he stressed that the recent attack is a reflection of the fact that lives in the country are of no value to the government and nobody is safe in Nigeria. Adams who accused the Buhari led administration of targeting Igboho added that two attempts at the activist houses within six months cannot be said to be ordinary. “We cannot continue to live in fear and trepidations. We cannot continue to live in a perpetual crisis where our lives and properties are not secured. ”Igboho is being hunted because of his beliefs in the struggle for the liberation of Yoruba race and those behind these two attacks should be warned that any attack on Igboho is an attack on all of us that are in the struggle for the liberation of Yoruba race. It is sad that this government is intolerant of other people’s views, He advised that it was in the interest of the Federal Government to learn how to manage those agitating. ”Yorubas are seeking self-determination or devolution of power. These are the two key things we are asking from the Federal Government. So, of the two requests, the FG should be ready to negotiate for one, rather than using force to subdue agitators. “As far as I am concerned, I don’t support anything that negates the law or anybody that disobeys the law, however, the Federal Government should be able to tolerate other people’s view, by taking into consideration, the rights of every citizen as it is in the constitution. This is what makes democracy thrives,” he added.