Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. No fewer than three children in Badarawa community, Kaduna North Local Government Area sustained varying degrees of injuries yesterday following an explosion in the area. The state Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, ASP Mohammed Jalige confirmed the incident but was unable to ascertain the cause. 2. Amid threats by security agencies, the Yoruba nation protesters on Saturday stormed the Gani Fawehinmi Freedom Park, Ojota, Lagos where they successfully held the planned mega rally. 3. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State on Saturday said some bandits terrorizing the state are currently targeting his seven-year-old son, Abubakar Al-Sadiq El-Rufai. He spoke in an interview with BBC Pidgin in Kaduna. 4. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major-General Faruk Yahaya, has approved the appointment of new Principal Staff Officers (PSOs), General Officers Commanding (GOCs), Commandant of military training institutions, new Director, Defence Information, among others. The appointments are with immediate effect, according to the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General, Onyema Nwachukwu. 5. Anambra State government has said that it will set up adequate mechanism to address touting in markets within the state. The Commissioner for Trade and Commerce, Chief Uchenna Okafor, stated this while monitoring the election of executive members of the Anambra State Market Amalgamated, Traders Association (ASMATA) in the state. 6. A young girl was shot dead on Saturday close to the scene of the Lagos rally of Yoruba nation agitators at Ojota, with some witnesses claiming she was killed by a stray bullet fired by the police. The police denied the accusation vehemently, claiming the corpse was not fresh and appeared to have a wound sustained from a sharp object. 7. Governors, Ministers, Senators, House of Reps members were among the dignitaries who stormed Kano State yesterday for the coronation of Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, the 15th Fulani Emir of Kano. 8. The clerk to the National Assembly, Mr Amos Ojo, has advocated payment of life salaries as retirement benefits for clerks to state assemblies as being enjoyed by permanent secretaries in the executive arm of government. He stated this at a meeting of the Forum of Clerks of Nigerian Legislatures (FOCON) in Abuja. 9. The Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) says it is partnering with the Bayelsa State Government to revive the moribund 500 fish ponds in the state to be used as a training facility for Niger Delta ex-agitators on fish farming. The interim administrator of the programme, Colonel Milland Dixon Dikio (retd) disclosed this in Yenagoa yesterday. 10. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan has said that Nigerians were misled by critics to believe that the N9.2 billion budgeted for the rehabilitation of the National Assembly complex had been embezzled by the federal lawmakers. The Senate President spoke at the Conference of Presiding Officers of the Nigerian Legislature ongoing in Abuja.