A Professor of Theology and Social Ethics at the Jos Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), Professor Yusuf Turaki, has alleged that the Muslim Hausa, Fulani and Kanuri ethnocentrism is the cause of insecurity crisis in all Northern Nigeria. He added that scholars, government and politicians have already developed a wrong and deceptive narrative that does not contain truth in what is happening in the Northern part of the country. Speaking on the theme, “Nigeria’s insecurity: The Church’s Response on the 21st Century” organized by the Kaduna State Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Professor Turaki noted that the insecurity being experienced in the region is the government’s inability to come up with the truth of the situation. Insecurity: Probe funds released for purchase of weapons for military – ECWA President tells Buhari He lamented that whatever agricultural policies the federal government is proposing and making, on one side it looks like an agricultural policy but on the other side, it is an Islamic system being imposed on the people. He explained that when there are politicians who don’t understand what the policy is all about, they swallow the system and deprive their land and the people of the right thing to be done for their overall development. Professor Turaki observed that the main cause of insecurity is the result of religious ideology that people are practising not religious faith, adding that people have turned from faith to ideology thereby becoming a menace to society. He said Nigerians are suffering from the lies of the government who do not want to tell them the truth, asking, “Who brought in the foreign Fulanis. Nigeria politicians know exactly how the bandits came into the country but they won’t tell Nigerians the truth.” He lamented that many communities are suffering as a result of the activities of the Fulanis, stressing that what the Sokoto Caliphate did before is exactly what the Fulanis are doing now by coming with AK47 to kidnap, kill and destroy people’s property and take over their ancestral homes. He said there is a strong geographical correlation between the Fulani herdsmen and the old Sokoto Caliphate, saying the Caliphate carried out its slave trade and slavery centuries ago and it is the same geographical area where the Fulani herdsmen are operating today. “The foreign Fulanis are allowed into the country so that they could join their brothers in Nigeria thereby raise the spate of insecurity of killings and occupy the ancestral lands of many ethnic groups in the Middle Belt,” he asserted. He said Christians claim to stand for the truth, die for the truth and yet they are being deceived in all aspects in government, police, Army and others, pointing out that those who own the truth have now become the prey. Senate to investigate CCT Chairman, Umar, over alleged assault on security guard