At least 11 members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, are in the race for the party’s chairmanship position in Enugu State. Among them is Group Capt. Joseph Orji, (Rtd.) a former military Governor of Gombe State. DAILY POST reports that they were introduced during a meeting between the State Caretaker Committee of the party and some other aspirants for different positions from ward to the State level. Apart from Orji, others in the chairmanship race are Barr. Chike Omeje, Amb. Fidel Ayogu, Mr. John Okorie, Dr. Chikelu Obinna, Chiedozie Nwafor, Walter Oji, Charles Chukwu, Timothy Amah, Comrade A. C. Ude, and Benson Eze. Addressing members of the party and the various aspirants, the State Chairman, Dr. Ben Nwoye assured that there would be a level playing field for all the contestants. While dismissing fears of a possible manipulation of the exercise, Nwoye said “nobody will hijack the exercise. If you are interested, pick form and test your popularity.” He, however, said candidates should be driven by the overall interest of the party, even though those serving were still qualified to contest. He said: “I have led this party by example and very much qualified to recontest my position in the coming congress. Many have come to me asking me to recontest but I have said no to them. “That is based on my conviction that the only thing that is irreplaceable is God; every other thing on earth has replacement. “Don’t hold any position as if your life depends on it. I am not forcing anyone to toe my path but appealing to those whose tenure was cut short and now trying to recontest to take a second look at their aspirations. “If they can, let them sacrifice and allow the party to have a fresh start. It will also help us reduce tension and friction. We have grown this party and there is now way we can claim we have succeeded unless we have occupied the government house, Enugu.” Nwoye, who showered gratitude to some members of his executive, who had willingly agreed to surrender their ambition, stated that politics no matter how well played would not succeed with sacrifice. “All we ask of you is to remain steadfast and know that it is the APC first before any other thing. You have to continue to support this party. We will continue to vote in elections and congresses and I know that very soon, we all will be counted as part of those who sweated for the growth of the party”, he added. While there are 11 contestants for the sole position of the state chairman, tens of others are vying for the 17 local government chairmanship seats in the state.