The Special Adviser to the Bayelsa State Governor on Political Matters, Chief Collins Cocodia, has described politicians moving against the transmission of election results to the server of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, from the polling units as the real enemies of the country. Cocodia who was reacting to the development on a live program at the State-owned Radio Station, Glory FM 97.1, described the purported move to hurriedly pass the Electoral Act as amended, without the inclusion of results transmission to INEC server as not only undemocratic but callous. He also lamented that at a time other nations of the world were taking critical steps to protect their democracy, politicians in Nigeria were bent on winning elections by engaging in malpractices and other inappropriate means, Alleging that they are working hard to scuttle what is left in the nations’ democratic system. The Ex-Commissioner warned Nigerians to forget peaceful elections in 2023 if the National Assembly expunges the transmission of results from the polling units before passing the Amended Electoral Act. “It is disturbing to hear that they want to remove the transmission of election results from the polling units. If that happens, then we are going into an era of violence, massive rigging and violation of all electoral laws. So I think it is just going to take the country backwards”. He also reiterated his call to the Federal Government to support the Independent National Electoral Commission, by giving it room for the conduct of the elections via electronic voting, charging them to put the interest of Nigerians at heart, and not their individual interest. “I am a politician, but I want the right things to be done, that’s why I have been clamouring for the total embrace of electronic voting. I thought by now the APC led Federal Government will be working towards achieving that”. “But you and I know that if that comes to play, it means that most of the persons at the red and green chambers will not have the opportunity to return, and they are scared of that, especially when they know they haven’t delivered the goods to the people, and they know they will be rejected through the ballot when they seek reelection”. “So far we made progress in Edo and Ondo where results were transmitted and it went well. So if it went well in areas it was tried and Nigerians applauded it, I see no reason why some persons in the current National Assembly are trying to remove what we make our electoral act to be thick”. “You know the APC led federal government don’t care about the masses, whatever they want to do they do it, even if it will spark outrage amongst Nigerians. We take a step forward and twenty steps backwards”. He further added that the passing of the Electoral Act will transcend the States Electoral Commission and elections conducted at the state level can not be manipulated even with the appointment of an active politician belonging to any party, as the state commissioner. On the strengthening of institutions and commissions, he said “It will help achieve effective and legitimate performance of duties without fear or intimidation, which will also help in checkmating the morale and attitude of politicians and making them more responsible. He finally urged Bayelsans to embrace the ongoing continuous voter registration by the Independent National Electoral Commission, and ensure they get registered. Collins Okeke: Growing demand for a democratic system of local government in Nigeria