The Management of the University of Uyo, Town Campus, Akwa Ibom State has ordered its students to vacate the hostels with immediate effect. This was contained in a press statement issued to journalists in Uyo on Friday by the Registrar of the University, Mr. Aniediabasi Udofia. Although the statement did not indicate reasons for the order, it was gathered that the directive came following a cult clash in the institution which claimed the lives of one final year student leaving another seriously injured by gunshots. A source in the University who did not want his name mentioned said the incident started on Tuesday, June 29, 2021, when a 300 level student in the department of Geography Department, Faculty of Social Sciences was killed by some suspected cultists. Insecurity: UniJos shuts students’ hostels over threats The source added that after the death of the student, a reprisal attack was launched by a rival cult group the next day against the Fine Arts Department which led to the death of the students by a gunshot. The sources said, “A student from the Department of Geography was killed on Tuesday. But, on Wednesday around 5pm, we heard some gunshots in the Department of Fine Art and on getting there, we discovered that a student was shot. He was said to be rushed to an undisclosed hospital where he is undergoing treatment.” To forestall the breakdown of law and order as well as another reprisal attack, the school management has ordered all students to vacate the hostels while those writing their examinations or on research work were advised to operate from their respective homes. The statement reads in parts, “The University Management has given a directive that all students residing in the hostels in the University Campus vacate till further notice. “Students who have any ongoing academic activities (Examination or Research Projects) to do in the school during this period are advised to do so from their respective homes.” The management, however, directed the Dean of Students and the Director, Security, to ensure students comply with the order.