Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, sent a get-well message to the Head of the Catholic Church, Pope Francis as he heads in for a scheduled surgery of the colon. Buhari’s message was contained in a statement on Sunday night by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu. 2. Gunmen suspected to be bandits have abducted babies, staff and security guards from the residential quarters of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre in Zaria, Kaduna State. The Kaduna State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, confirmed the incident, saying efforts
are on to rescue the victims. 3. Mujahid Asari Dokubo, former militant commander and head of the Biafra Customary Government (BCG), has mocked the detained IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, saying his ordeal has not started. In a video, Dokubo accused Kanu of defrauding Biafrans, saying he has been unable to account for funds remitted to him. 4. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has said he is not interested in the 2023 presidency because he is too old to cope with the demands of the office. The 62-year-old governor disclosed this during an interview with BBC in Kaduna. 5. JAMB Registrar, Is-haq Oloyede, has blamed the coronavirus pandemic for the poor performance of candidates in the just-concluded Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. While appearing on a live programme on a Nigerian Television Authority’s tagged “Weekend File”, Oloyede confirmed that this year’s UTME results were poorer than those of three years ago. 6. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has ordered an investigation into the killing of a 14-year-old girl during the Oodua Republic Mega Rally in Ojota. A statement issued by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, said the security and well-being of citizens are of importance to the government. 7. The Taraba State chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Peter Jediel, has again been abducted by unknown gunmen. 8. Gunmen suspected to be hired killers, yesterday, shot dead a driver and mobile police escort attached to a prominent All Progressives Congress (APC) youth leader, Chief Michael Johnny, at the popular Airport Junction in the heart of Warri South Local Government Area of Delta state. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Edafe Bright confirmed the incident. 9. Oyo State Police Command has confirmed that five persons lost their lives yesterday morning, when a fully loaded gas tanker in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, suffered a brake failure. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso made the confirmation on Sunday. 10. The Senate Constitution Review Committee has ratified a proposal that will compel the President to form his cabinet within 30 days of assumption of office. Governors are also to be mandated to form the Executive Council within the same time frame. These are part of the proposals voted for by the Committee members.