Ex-Commissioner for Information from Imo State, Professor Vitalis Ajumbe has commended the National Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC, of the All Progressive Congress, APC for postponing the party’s congresses, and national convention. DAILY POST earlier reported that President Muhammadu Buhari, while receiving the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) at the State House, Abuja had approved the review of the timeline for the All Progressives Congress (APC) congresses. The President endorsed the progress report, the schedule of outstanding activities with regards to congresses, the national convention and the forthcoming Anambra Governorship election. The president, who is a chieftain of the APC, approved ward congresses to be held on 24th July, 2021, Local Government congresses on 14th August, 2021 and State congresses on 18th September, 2021. However, the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, has announced the shifting of its Wards, Local Governments and State Congresses indefinitely. The development was conveyed in a letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, dated July 6, 2021, and signed by the duo of the National Chairman of APC’s Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC, and Governor of Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni as well as the National Secretary of the CECPC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe. No reason was advanced for the action but it was gathered that the ruling party has been having logistic challenges with regards to the conduct of the exercise in states. Reacting, the Party Chieftain, Professor Ajumbe in a statement issued to DAILY POST on Saturday said the postponement was in order because it will provide sufficient time for the party leadership to conclude the collation of the party’s data anchored on its membership revalidation and registration exercise. He noted that with the level of insecurity in the country, it is unconducive to hold the party’s congresses and national convention. Ajumbe stated that what is paramount was to ensure that the APC remains formidable despite its several challenges. He commended the Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC for the level of orderliness in the party, and for attracting Governors of Ebonyi, Cross River, Zamfara States; namely, Dave Umahi, Ben Ayade, Bello Matawalle, some Senators, members of the House of Representatives, and many others, to the APC. The two-time Imo Commissioner said, “The CECPC led by Governor Mai Mala Buni has done well, and deserves accolades for a job well done in repositioning the APC. “Patriotic members of the APC must encourage the CECPC to enable them to consolidate on the gains of its accomplishments within a short of time” Ajumbe said the congresses and national convention can take place when it is deemed appropriate and conducive for the party. “Congresses can take place when it is proper to do so. If APC must retain power at the centre, and win more states, the party must take guided steps, in order to avoid disharmony among members and stakeholders,” he posited.