Following the passage of the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigation Professionals bill by the National Assembly, the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria, NYCN, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to expedite assent in view of its importance to fighting corruption in Nigeria. The group also commended the National Assembly for passing the bill, stating that it was well thought out at this time that the fight against corruption should be all encompassing. This is being sought for while the new body simultaneously praised the efforts of the 9th Assembly in its eagerness to ensure transparency and accountability by the passage of the forensic investigation bill to enhance a robust public service. In a statement signed by the NYCN President, Comrade Isah Abubakar, which was sent to DAILY POST on Thursday, the group said history was made by the current federal lawmakers in ensuring the bill for forensic investigation had legal backing. He described the decision as patriotic and a direct response geared towards containing corruption, fraud, cybercrimes that had eaten deep into the Nigeria system, as well, coming at a time the fight against endemic corruption by the present administration is unwavering. Forensic bill will tackle corruption, stop sabotaging it – Group tells Auditor-General In so doing, the youth council saluted the courage of the lawmakers in the continuous protection of the basic duties and it’s readiness to continue to play a complementary role towards good governance in Nigeria through robust forensic legislation. The NYCN joined the new body and other well meaning Nigerians in deep appreciation of the desire of the National Assembly in carrying out its statutory functions devoid of any form of delay. The group’s president noted that assent by Mr President would play a greater role in his efforts to streamline public service, activities, and checkmate the complementary efforts of the private sector. He said by the act setting up the new body, the stage is now set to return the country to the glorious days where probity and accountability would be the watchword while merit would be the guiding principle as the new body is set to exhume and clean up all sectors of the economy. He congratulated the body for attaining this great feat, saying “it will go a long way towards resolving many thorny financial transactions desiring attention in Nigeria”.