Parents and sympathisers of the kidnapped Bethel Baptist School students have begged security agents to intensify efforts at ensuring their students are released. A cross section of the parents and sympathisers who spoke to DAILYPOST in an interview in Kaduna on Tuesday said, “those kidnapped children have spent nine days in captivity, and nothing positive have been heard about them.” One of the parents, Mrs. Alice Jonathan, who said her daughter was in SS2, expressed disappointment over the way security agencies are going about the situation. “I am disappointed with the way the security agents are going towards the abducted children,” she said. “If security agents can comb Kaduna bushes in search of a single person who was kidnapped, and released within 24 hours, the 121 children shouldn’t have taken longer than necessary.” Abducted Bethel Baptist students doing well – Bandits confirm Jonathan, who said she has not had a night sleep since her daughter was kidnapped, said she trusts God that one day, they will all regain freedom. Also speaking to DAILYPOST in Maramara, village, Chikun LGA, where the students were kidnapped, a resident, Mr. Joseph Aneke, who said kidnappers shot sporadically for almost an hour before the students were taken away, begged security operatives to put more efforts to ensure they are released. He said: “the more those students are kept in the bush, the more their lives are in danger.” Now, we don’t know the state of health of those children. He expressed optimism that they will all come out alive. Also, a Pastor of God’s Chosen Ministry, Maramara village, Pastor Emmanuel Oduba expressed hope that one day, the students will come home alive.
He urged parents, sympathisers and concerned individuals to always “watch and pray as God will surely do wonders in the lives of the kidnapped children.” Recall that kidnappers of the Bethel Baptist School Students demanded 30 bags of rice, nine bags of beans and other food ingredients to feed the students. But the vice principal of the school’s response of having only six bags of beans and rice angered the bandits who threatened to starve the students to death, and later switched off their phones