The people of Umabor Eha-Alumonah Community, in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State have cried out to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of the State over the level of infrastructure decay in the area. This formed part of a communique issued by the community after a recent town hall meeting organized by the Umabor Unity Forum. The communique was signed by the chairman of the communique committee, Very Rev Fr. Dr. Amuluche Greg Nnamani and the spokesman of the community, Emmanuel Ugwueze. They lamented that previous governments in the State totally neglected the area, a situation that left their basic amenities in a sorry state. The community while thanking Governor Ugwuanyi for the work on the Premier Junction-Agu Umabor Road, as well as the renovation of a school block in Community High School Umabor, asked for more government presence. “The present intervention of the Enugu State Government on the Premier Junction-Agu Umabor Road is the first of this kind. While we thank the Governor for this, we plead that the road be asphalted as our community is yet to benefit from any of such projects. Many roads in our community are also almost impassable. “The only secondary school in Umabor Community, built with community effort, is also in a very bad situation, putting the lives of the students in danger. We are begging the governor to also invoke his emergency powers and save that school,” the communique read. The communique also expressed worry over the activities of Fulani herdsmen in Agu Umabor Community, and appealed to security agencies and the government “to secure the life of our people, who have now been completely displaced from their farms and native lands. “Meeting also vowed to recover our lost cultural practices and values by engaging the younger generation and getting them interested. Identity is important in every society and we shouldn’t leave the transference of our cultural values to fate. Meeting therefore advocated for a continuation of The Umabor Community Cultural Day Event of December 28 each Year.”