A socio-political group, the Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), has written to the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, for an urgent need to constitute a harmonization drive to address the pressing problems confronting the party with particular reference to mass exodus of members to the All Progressive Congress (APC). In a letter signed by its National Coordinator, Chief Emeka Kalu, and addressed to Secondus, the PDP Coalition stated that the party leadership needs to take swift action to save the party’s successfully achieved blueprints from hitting the wall due to misguided happenings and other forms of engraved grudges. The letter was made available to DAILY POST in Aba, Abia State on Sunday. The PDP Coalition opined, “The manner and speed with which party members decamp to APC after being elected into various political offices is highly alarming and regrettable.That means something is wrong somewhere and we cannot afford to lose all our active members in a twinkle of an eye for reasons which I think are not beyond the party leadership to address.Defectors are also admonished to note that it is a mark of betrayal and distrust for them to bite with reckless abandon the hands that had once and in several occasions fed them. “The APC platform you are moving to is never a sure way of restoring hope and promoting national development nor does it show honour to the electorate that voted you into offices.It depicts signs of having polluted conscience and disregard for the sufferings of helpless Nigerians who are currently in dire need of redemption from the yoke of insecurity,hunger,inequalities and other anomalies”. It lamented, “We have lost Ebonyi, Cross River and Zamfara states governors to APC,we also saw how four Green Chamber House Members of Zamfara state extraction and 80% of the same state assembly lawmakers followed suit. Recall that one of the serving senators of this 9th Assembly elected under the banner of PDP ,Delta State had divorced his marriage with our party and remarried APC. As it stands in the Federal House of Representatives,40% of duly elected legislators under the party umbrella have defected to APC which gives the Party an uttermost concern for a re-think and re-planning”. Continuing, it added, “That is why it is pertinent for the party under the watch of Chief Uche Secondus to immediately convene an urgent Harmonization meeting of all the National Working Committee members (NWC), party chieftains, state exco and all parties involved for a closed door deliberations where grievances will be poured, addressed and a way forward pragmatically outlined on a clean template for reconciliation and revamping.I confidently wish to affirm that the future of this country is in the hands of PDP as the hungry and distressed Nigerians are looking up to the Party to salvage the nation come 2023.We need to comport and organize ourselves in a way that would convince Nigerians that PDP is their future hope and source of relief from the shambles of lopsided leadership daggering their hearts. “Without batting an eyelid,this is just the truth capable of harnessing the party and equipping her with bundles of lively feathers to fly without getting weary now, come 2023 and ahead.It is a simple analogy of fact that solidarity is the cornerstone of victory in politics. I also besiege aggrieved party members to shit their swords and tow the path of oneness in order to move this country forward”. The Coalition commended all the party faithfuls and the teeming supporters for remaining calm and focused as there was no cause of action in life that yields good results without experiencing ills and backlashes. According to the political group, “It is time to right the wrong, it is time to pick the pieces and mend them, it is time for re strengthening to do exploits, it is time to give Nigerians the good news being waited for. One love,all hails as this call is treated and given a due deserved attention”.