The leadership of Christian Reformed Church-Nigeria (CRC-N) has expressed worry over the killing of Pastor Timothy M. Damisa. The pastor, who was brutally killed early this week by unknown gunmen in Kurmi council of Taraba State, was also the Chairman of the Regional Church Council (RCC) in Baissa, the administrative headquarters of Kurmi. DAILY POST reports that Dmisa’s killing is the third within the denomination to have been killed in recent times. Sad by the development, the Church President, Rev (Dr.) Caleb Ahima, who also doubles as the National Vice President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), today condemned the incessant killings of clergymen in the state at large. Speaking through the Vice President of the church, who also doubles as the State Chairman of CAN, Isaiah J. Magaji, the church, according to him, “condemns it entirely.” The “gruesome act” according to him “came at the time the church is in dire need of faithful, committed and reliable men of God such as the deceased in society to sensitize it and proffer solutions to the daunting challenges affecting the church and the nation at large ” The government, in collaboration with the law enforcement agency, as suggested by him, should work round the clock to fish out the killers of the pastor. Describing the assassination of the clergy man as a “great shock to the entire denomination “the sad news, according to him came “at the time this vibrant pastor was contributing enormously to the spiritual and physical transformation of the church.” The church, who could not fathom why hoodlums have continued to operate freely in the state, urged government at all levels and intelligence agencies to swing into action to “uncover the syndicates perpetrating these vices and their sponsors must be brought to book.” The church leadership said this would serve as a deterrent to others stating that “as allowing crime to thrive will make perpetrators consider it a lucrative business and others would be attracted to join them.” The church who also admonished their members to desist from peddling unfounded rumours concerning the incident in order not to cause division among members, there is need for the youths themselves to eschew from making themselves as tools for destruction in the hands of some individuals. Apart from the three clergymen of the church that have so far been killed by unknown hoodlums, several others from other denominations have faced different threats from hoodlums.