Famine looms in Kaduna as bandits not only kidnap farmers but recently embarked on destroying growing food crops on farms. Crops like maize, beans, okra and other essential food items planted in the rainy season and expected to ripen in the coming months were destroyed The recent development is alleged to be a new strategy by the kidnappers to punish farmers who have no other source of income. Pundits are, however, of the view that, if such devilish attitude continues, the state may experience famine in the coming months. Bandits have taken over our farmlands – Zamfara farmer, Dansadau Already, prices of food items have continued to rise daily in the market as consumers have no choice. Experts say if this new trend is allowed to continue, life will be too hard for the citizens and life expectancy of individuals will be reduced and crime rates will be on the increase. A farmer in Kajuru, Mallam Mohammed Abdullah while lamenting the security situation said he was tired of life. According to him, life is becoming unbearable because bandits have taken control of the state. ” I don’t think there is any government in place. What we have now, is bandits, spreading all over. In Borno, State, we have bandits as Governor. More powerful than the governor. ” We have no other source of income. Farming which is our preoccupation is now taken over by bandits. We bought fertilizer from the government at exorbitant prices, paid for labour, for crops to germinate. In the process, you see your crops growing and make all advance calculations, all of a sudden, you visit your farm one morning, and see that they have cut down all your crops. What kind of wickedness is this?” He asked. Chairman, Farmers Association, Kaduna state, Alhaji Idi Maramara who lives in Maramara village, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State who was astonished over the new strategy conceived by bandits, said residents were in bondage as the government was silent about the safety of the people, “It’s time to declare a state of emergency in Kaduna State.” “No one is safe in Kaduna State. If you, your son, daughter, or relatives are not kidnapped, get ready to be starved of hunger. Hunger is also caused by Criminals who do not want farmers to go to the farm. Even those who risk their lives to go farming, their crops are being destroyed by Suspected bandits.” ” Wholesale traders and market women who go far bush market to buy in large quantities could no longer go, for fear of being Kidnapped. Presently, no raw food is coming to Kaduna, and no raw food is going out of Kaduna. By the time the one we have on ground to finish, it’s then, we know where we are going from here.” He said