The detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu has disclosed details of his arrest and alleged torture by Kenya Authority. DAILY POST reports that he made the disclosure to his defence counsel, Mr. Ifeanyi Ejiofor. The lawyer who visited the IPOB leader at the custody of the Department of State Service, DSS, said his client was arrested and detained for eight days by Kenya’s Special Police Force, before he was eventually handed over to their Nigerian counterpart. Recall that the DSS had earlier permitted Kanu’s legal team to visit the fugitive where he is been detained. Shortly after the visit on Friday evening, Ejiofor said his client was arrested in Kenya on June 18 but was detained and tortured until last Sunday when he was flown back to the country. Nnamdi Kanu: We did not know when IPOB leader came in – Kenya denies complicity His statement posted on Facebook read: “Update on meeting with MNK today, 2nd July 2021: My Client – Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was actually abducted by the accursed Kenya’s Special Police Force on the 18th of June 2021 at their International Airport, and consequently taken to an undisclosed residence under dehumanizing conditions. He was tortured and subjected to all forms of inhuman treatment which worsened his health condition. *He was illegally detained for eight (8) good DAYS in Kenya* before being transfered to their Nigerian counterpart. He was purportedly investigated on a bogus charge while in their custody, ostensibly, awaiting to be handed over after their findings proved him innocent of all the spurious allegations. They later beckoned on their Nigerian Counterpart to take over. Kenyan Government was deeply involved in the abduction, detention and ill-treatment of my Client before the illegal handover to their Nigerian counterpart. A scan of his heart showed that the heart has enlarged by 13% due to the dehumanizing treatment meted to him. There will be need for immediate proper medical examination and attention for him. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu conveyed his goodwill message to all IPOB family members worldwide, and craved for your unrelentless prayers. We are going back to the Court for the needful. Other details cannot be entertained here. His fortified legal team will address these infractions at the proper forum as we progress. Other details on our legal strategy, may not be made public. With Chukwuokike Abiama on our side, Victory is assured. For if God Almighty be for us, who can be against us?” We’re not happy at being dragged into Nnamdi Kanu’s matter – Kenyan govt