The insistence by the British government that it was not aware of the arrest of Biafra agitator and IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, may be inaccurate. The world power had refuted speculations that Kanu was arrested in Britain during a sting operation in conjunction with Nigeria. A source close to federal authorities told DAILY POST Tuesday night that the United Kingdom denied knowledge for bilateral reasons. “Yes, Kanu was not apprehended in the UK. He was apprehended in an African nation but they know about it. “What did you expect their officials to say? The British government and Nigeria are allies; you think they will support one individual over a long-time partner? “I’m going to be sincere with you, it got to a point where Britain was not comfortable about Kanu’s utterances.” The informant added that the Indigenous People of Biafra founder was reckless about his movements and actions. “You expect that someone with his influence would move about in a heavy way. I mean, he should go to places with bodyguards since he controls thousands of Eastern Security Network (ESN) operatives. “But he did not. Kanu was going to clubs and lounges freely. No protection, no armed boys around him! He likes women and was sighted severally around them having fun. “Intelligence experts figured since this appeared to be his weakness, they should use a female operative to initiate a parley with him. “On the day of his arrest, Kanu thought he was going for a meeting to collect a huge donation to support the Biafra agitation. That didn’t happen, he simply walked into a trap.” The secessionist will return to trial on July 26 at the Federal High Court in Abuja. He faces treason charges for leading a movement to make Nigeria ungovernable. The government and security agencies blame Kanu for the murder of dozens of security personnel and destruction of government infrastructure in South-East and South-South. Two links to intelligence agencies told DAILY POST that the crimes were perpetrated by the ESN, IPOB militia wing, also known as “unknown gunmen”. “ESN has committed terrible atrocities. You will be shocked when you hear things to be revealed during Kanu’s trial”, one said.