President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the new Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, has inherited the big shoes of his late father Ado Bayero of resilience, tolerance, perseverance and God-fearing leadership as he comes at a time Nigeria needs his strong contributions. “Aminu inherits one of the rebirths of the Traditional Institution in Africa, today it is a fact that he has a heavy task to fulfill, as such he should try to ensure that the legacy of perseverance, tolerance and sound leadership qualities are maintained,” he said. Speaking during the Presentation of Staff of Office to the new of Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, Buhari, who was represented by his Vice President, Professor Yomi Osibanjo, said Kano is not an ordinary city, saying it has been a melting pot in Africa in commerce and politics and radical center of ideas. Osibanjo reminded him that Kano has been serving as a home of Mallam Aminu Kano, the home of capitalist billionaire Akiko Dangote, ” and we are proud of this city of tolerance and perseverance, today Aminu inherit one of the revert house in Africa has a good inheritance and difficult task to hold.” Governor Umar Ganduje said Aminu Ado Bayero, who was born in 1961, is the second eldest son to his father, late Ado Bayero, adding that prior to his appointment people of Kano called him Sai Kayi, “that you must ascend the throne” as a man of the people’s which explained the jubilation amongst Kano people when he was appointed. Governor Ganduje said, “our administration holds traditional institutions with high esteem as has been clearly shown with the creations of several traditional Emirs and Emirates Councils, who today play key roles in the peace enjoyed in Kano.” He said his Government assigned roles to Emirs and others after the creation of five layers of community policing programs in the state. He urged the new Emir to use his position to promote peace and unity, pleading with him to distance himself from controversies and not to allow himself to be used by self-centered persons. Aminu Ado Bayero said “I was made the 15th Emir of Kano not because I’m above any other Person’s, but it is just a choice from God.” He commended Governor Ganduje for selecting him to inherit his father, calling on Kano people and Nigerians to love one another and follow guidance of the creator so as to go free from the series of tribulation Nigerians are facing. Aminu advised Nigerians to pray for their leaders. He reminded leaders that God will surely ask them to account on how they conducted their leadership. He directed traditional leaders at wards and local governments to play a significant role in security, education and social wellbeing of their subjects, urging Nigerians to love one another and shun things that inimical to peace.