Sequel to the crisis rocking the Plateau State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, a Director of Research and Documentation of Professionals in the party, Salama Plangshak, has called on members of the PDP to engage in other areas of discipline or vocation rather than depending solely on political activities for survival. He said the inability of members to get themselves involved in useful ventures is responsible for the current crisis bedevilling the state chapter of the party. Speaking to journalists in Jos, Plangshak decried what he said was unending wrangling that has culminated in a series of litigations. He said, just like in other merchandise, there are crisis merchants in political parties, adding that the crisis merchants were responsible for the upheavals that have bedevilled the PDP in the state. “There are those members of our party whose main source of survival is crisis. “Those who live fat only on upheavals, don’t have any job, they don’t have a vocation or any business”, he maintained. “Take myself as an instance; I am a staunch member of the PDP, but I have a job as a lecturer. “But as far as the crisis merchants are concerned, politics is a profession rather than a hobby. “They detest peace, and won’t be part of any peace negotiation. Even if they do take part in any and make commitments, they would always renege because they cannot survive when there is peace in the party”, he explained. “I have said this time without number, that we don’t have factions in the PDP in Plateau State. We only have people who are hell-bent on destroying the party. Plangshak who was a Senatorial aspirant in the 2019 elections added that “Unfortunately, it is the same people who have benefited from the party immensely that have turned against it. One would expect that with the dissolution of the Hon. Chris Hassan led EXCO and the composition of a Care Taker Committee would have seen an end to the lingering issues, but it has not. “Why? Because you have people who are not committed to the progress of the party, people whose only means of survival is when the party is in crisis. “These people cannot contribute meaningfully to the progress of the party and by extension, deepened our democracy. In other words, if peace reigns, they would be at loose ends. “Consequently, triggering crises becomes their only survival imperative”, he lamented. Plangshak, who is the Director of Research and Documentation of the Professionals in the PDP in the State, further observed with dismay that such people posed a grave danger not only to the party but democracy as a whole. “The coming on board of the Care Taker Committee after the dissolution of the immediate past EXCO should have been the basis for solving all lingering crises in the party, but it’s the same jobless people that have constituted a clog in the wheel of progress. “And as I earlier said, once they give their full cooperation to the CTC and the issues resolved, it would equally mean the end of their survival. “For instance, one of the key steps agreed upon by both parties as a preamble towards resolving the issues was for both parties to withdraw all pending cases in court to which only one party heeded to while the other refused, culminating to the delivering of a judgment involving Jos East LGA of the party on June 24, 2021, which further dealt blow to our party”, Plangshak decried. He added that the said judgment has put the CTC in a precarious situation as it cannot conduct congresses at the LGAs or go on appeal considering the time frame given to conclude its assignment.