Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The abductors of Bethel Baptist Church High School students, Kaduna, have confirmed that there are 121 students in their custody. Proprietor of the school, Yahaya Adamu Jangado disclosed this to newsmen on Tuesday. 2. The Presidency on Tuesday praised the nation’s security agencies for their collaboration in the operations that led to the arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. This was contained in a statement by Malam Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity. 3. At least 19 people have been killed and others missing after gunmen on motorbikes attacked Tsauwa village a second time, in Batsari council area of Katsina State on Monday evening. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO Gambo Isah confirmed the attack. 4. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, charged the Nigerian Army to develop new strategies in tackling insurgency and other emerging security threats facing the country. Buhari spoke in Abuja at the 2021 Nigerian Army Day celebration (NADCEL) lecture series through his Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi (Retd). 5. The Senate and the House of Representatives yesterday constituted “conference committees” to harmonise the passed Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). Senate President Ahmad Lawan, who announced the composition of the Senate committee, charged members of the committee to meet with their counterparts in the House of Reps to enable the NASS come up with a final document on the PIB for transmission to the executive. 6. Four members of the House of Representatives, who were elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), from Zamfara State on Tuesday defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). This was contained in a letter signed by the defectors, Bello Hassan Shinkafi, Ahmed Bakura, Ahmed Shehu and Suleiman Gumi. 7. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has announced the extension of membership registration and revalidation in Imo, Kwara, Ogun, and Rivers for another two weeks. This was contained in a statement by the party’s caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoehede in Abuja on Tuesday. 8. The Coalition of Northern Groups on Tuesday accused the southern governors of shielding “felons, arsonists and mass atrocity perpetrators in their midst by challenging the prerogative of the FG to enforce law and order in all parts of the country.” The spokesperson for CNG, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman stated this in a statement yesterday. 9. The Senate will on Wednesday consider and pass the Federal Government’s N895.842 billion supplementary budget. Senate President Ahmad Lawan gave this indication during plenary after the Senate Committee on Appropriation laid its report on the Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2021. 10. A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered that a former Registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Professor Lawrence Adedibu Ojerinde, be remanded in prison custody. In a ruling on Tuesday, Justice Obiora Egwuatu ordered that Ojerinde be kept in a correctional facility pending the hearing of his bail application, scheduled for July 8.