The death of Nigerian musician Sound Sultan has shocked his fans across the world. Sound Sultan became a household name among Nigerians with his popular hit song ‘jagbajantis’ He released ‘jagbajantis’ in 2000. His death was confirmed on Sunday after battling with throat cancer. Some fans took to Twitter describing him as a music legend who will not be forgotten too soon. DAILY POST gathered comments from fans reminiscing their time with him and how his music impacted their lives. @F_jay “ B – Brotherhood,O – Objectivity,D – Democracy,M – Modification, A – Accountability
S – Solidarity. Sound Sultan’s formula for transforming Nigeria is more apt today and what we need now more than ever. Sad he didn’t see the country he wanted to live in.” @Oddschaser “Rest In Peace Sound Sultan.One of the pioneers of Nigerian Modern Music.” @SirDavidment “Sound Sultan’s music was very impactful and nationalistic. He used his music to address the issues bedeviling the everyday Nigerian. He set the pace, and many others followed. He’ll be greatly missed.“ @Gboyeezy “ One of the foremost makers of conscious music in Nigeria. Mathematics and Motherland were literally the most relevant songs that raised us and are still relevant today. Thank You My own Legend.Ajo o da bi Ile.Now you go home and rest in peace Sound Sultan. E pain me! Rest in Peace, Sound Sultan.” @Iamwillsteel “ SOUND SULTAN was more than just a musician, he was a teacher and leader. I have been listening to your sound since I was a kid.” @_iamtomi “ Rest well Sound Sultan, we will never forget you legend.” @Manlikeicey “ We won’t forget jagbajantis ( mathematics ) by Sound Sultan, an evergreen song that’ll reign forever in Nigeria. RIP legend, this one is sad.” @Emmaikumeh “ What a sad way to start the day, Good night Sound Sultan. A good man.Thank you for your kind gesture to me and my friends in Doha, Qatar in 2018. You came through for us.. my condolences to your beautiful wife and your amazing children. Rest In Peace Legend.” @Mazigburugburu1 “ First met Sound Sultan 23 years ago if my memory is right, in UI during the famous Havana Show. From his drive and passion for music you would know that he was destined for the top. He came, saw, and was still conquering but death interrupted it. So long Mr Jagbajantis! @Oyindamola “Rest In Peace Naija ninja , rest in peace Sound sultan ! You will never be forgotten.”