Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, condemned the incessant attacks and killings being perpetrated by bandits in Zamfara, Kaduna and other states in the North. The President in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, urged the military to crush the criminals. 2. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the weekend, revealed that the Federal Government will use a common-sense strategy to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. He stated this in Abuja when he chaired the inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee of the National Poverty Reduction with Growth Strategy at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. 3. At least one person has been feared killed and another injured after an alleged cult celebration turned bloody at Ugbokpo community in Apa Local Government Area of Benue State. Council Chairman of Apa LGA, Ameh Akoche, confirmed the incident as narrated, saying the deceased has been buried and normalcy has returned to the area. 4. Bandits have again abducted six people, including children, at Milgoma community in Sabon Gari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The Kaduna Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige confirmed the incident. 5. Yohana Isheme and his wife, Noami Yohana, have been abducted at Ukya Sabo community in Toto local government area of Nasarawa state. A resident of Ukya Sabo, simply identified as Samuel, said the incident happened around 1 am on Saturday. 6. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed its congresses from ward to national level, indefinitely. This was contained in a letter dated July 6, 2021, addressed to Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. 7. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, says he inherited many challenges from the state government hospitals upon assumption of office. He spoke on Saturday during a memorial lecture in honour of a late former Commissioner for Health and Hospital Services in the state, Dr. Ibrahim Babamini Sule. 8. Residents of Jalingo metropolis, the capital of Taraba State, have recounted their losses following a havoc wrecked by early morning rain fall which occurred on Saturday. The rain which started around 4 a.m yesterday, lasted several hours, destroying several valuables. 9. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, expressed sadness over the demise of Malam Muhammadu Maigari, also known as Muhammadu Musawa, his classmate in college and a prominent community leader. This was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu. 10. The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Otunba Gani Adams, has pleaded with traditional rulers, southwest political leaders, including Governors to forgive embattled Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho. Adams, in a viral-video, faulted Igboho for using wrong methods to demand self-determination.