A member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Grace Folashade Jackson Bent was on Saturday formally received into the opposition party in Adamawa State, the All Progressives Congress, APC. The female Senator was welcomed by the National Chairman, extraordinary caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni, represented by a former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani. The APC Chieftain from the South-East said Bent was the first female Senator to formally decamp to the APC because she considered the party to be a moving train. Nnamani said, “APC is getting stronger by the day, it’s becoming more vibrant than ever before, Grace is a crowd puller. We welcome her to the moving train. “With her, we are claiming our political relevance in Adamawa State and in 2023, APC will retain the presidency seat.” Bent formally registered her membership in the Dung Ward of Numan Local Government Area of the State as a full member of APC in the presence of the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru, Governor Samuel Lalong of Plateau, the First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, represented by Assbe Villita and the Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Mr. Edward Onoja, who represented Governor Yahaya Bello. In a remark, the Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru said despite fake news, lies, campaign of calumny against the APC government, the Nigerian masses believed in the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said in all aspects of life, Buhari had touched the lives of Nigerians in many positive ways because his performance speaks volumes for itself. He said, “people are joining APC in hundreds and many from Adamawa are coming to join also, APC is a train of the moment and I’m calling on many more people to join soon, let’s get moving to save our dear nation. “Despite the huge drop in our revenue generation, the social investment programmes are there to speak for themselves.” “The 260 road projects inherited by Buhari’s administration are being completed, he is working on over 800 roads across the length and breadth of this country,” Bagudu said. The North East Vice Chairman of APC, Prof, Mamman Tahir (SAN), and the First Lady, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, who was represented by the Director-General, National Women Commission, Dr. Asabe Villita spoke in similar manner. Tahir said there was no prominent politician from Adamawa who is still a member of PDP, and as such, victory is certain to come in 2023. Also speaking, Hon. Ginika Tor, Commissioner, Federal Character Commission, FCC, who represented the APC National woman leader, Caretaker Committee said the Senator’s defection was heartwarming. “Sen. Grace Bent is a strong political pillar, our National woman leader, in the APC National Caretaker Committee, Hon. Stella Okotete who is unavoidably absent, says there is no doubt that her coming on board will add value to the progressives especially to the women,” she said. Senator Bent, in a remark, said her eyes opened and she got a lot of wisdom when she defected to the APC. She said one of her reasons for dumping the PDP despite being the party’s BoT member is because of her many discoveries about how President Muhammadu Buhari is taking the country to greater heights. According to her, she joined APC with a big concern for the people of Adamawa State, most especially the Southern Senatorial District. “I’m dancing the tune of APC, I’m their willing instrument that can be used to dance and sing well for the total liberation of my people. I will dance to bring development, to build hospitals and schools, to build places of worship and give scholarship to our children and wards, I will dance to bring more democratic dividends of helping the less privileged. “I will make sure to do more than what I have done while in PDP because APC is for the Nigerian masses. I’m willing to join hands with my party leaders to build a country of our fatherland where happiness, peaceful coexistence will reign,” Bent said.