Over 10 shops and business premises in Ogoja Local Government Area of Northern Cross River State have been completely razed by fire. DAILY POST gathered that the inferno occurred on Friday night at No. 29 Mission Road, Igoli-Ogoja and no one was able to rescue anything as everything was completely burnt down. It was learned that the fire was caused by a generating set. An eyewitness said, that “one of the shop owners fainted when he heard of the information and he has been rushed to the hospital”. One of the victims, Mr Felix Orim, who owns an electrical and solar panel shop, said he got a call at midnight and when he went there on Saturday morning, everything was burnt down. “I just came back from Ikom and at about midnight while I was sleeping, my phone rang and I ignored it because I was so tired – when I woke up this morning (Saturday) to call back the person, I was told my shop had been completely burnt down. Fire razes shops, properties worth millions at Katsina Central Market “When I got here, everything inside has been burnt. My electrical and solar shop among those that were completely burned down by the fire. I don’t know how it started but people are saying the fire entered through the generator owned by one of the shops’ owners. “I just stocked that shop and it is all I’ve got. Please I am begging the Government or any other person or organisation that can compensate us because the economy is not going well with us. Please, anything can go a long way. I have a family to take care of”, Orim cried out. When contacted on the phone on Saturday, Hon. Emmanuel Ishabor, Executive Chairman of Ogoja Local Government Area confirmed the story.` Ishabor told DAILY POST that: “I have been there this morning and it has been confirmed. We got the information last night and it is true -and the information we had was that the fire was caused by a generator set but further investigation will be done to ascertain the information.” “For compensation, we will work with other agencies to see what can be done.”