Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, on Monday swore in the newly-appointed Local Government Caretaker Committees in all the local government areas, local council development areas, area councils and administrative offices, in the state. This is coming hours after the Osun State House of Assembly confirmed the caretaker committee nominees on Monday. Oyetola directed the new council heads to hit the ground running and ensure that they deliver urgently, the dividends of democracy to the teeming citizens as part of efforts to permanently register the name of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the hearts of the citizens and leave an indelible footprint in the sand of time. He charged them to champion the progressive ideals by being magnanimous in victory and to run the affairs of their respective Councils with the fear of God, transparency, accountability, fairness and equity. This is even as the governor charged them to stretch the hands of partnership to fellow contestants who were not so privileged by embarking on a reconciliatory move to other party members. Speaking during the swearing-in ceremony held at Multi-purpose Hall, Local Government Service Commission, Abere, Osogbo, Oyetola noted that his Administration had shun profligacy, corruption and other inimical behaviours that could jeopardise the quest for excellent and inspirational leadership. He enjoined the Council bosses to do same. He also urged them to look inward and make their services count in the lives of the people in the best progressive ideals that the party is known for. While congratulating them on their new attainments, Oyetola disclosed that their appointment was based on merit in view of their track record of capacity, performance and abiding loyalty to the progressive ideals of the ruling party. He also appealed to party members who did not make the final list, to put the past behind them and look forward to a brighter future in their quest to serve the people and the party, adding “we have taken note of your hard work, and I assure you, your own opportunities will come. “With such defining values as humility, integrity, purposefulness, honesty, transparency, accountability and incorruptibility, you should hit the ground running and ensure that you deliver urgently, the dividends of democracy to our teeming citizens. “As you all know; the local government institution is the closest to our people. Therefore, your leadership will only be as meaningful and successful to the extent to which you run an administration that is not only truly inclusive, but also one fully committed to meeting the basic needs of our people. “To do this, it requires that you lead a united front, working closely with the bureaucracy to run an administration that listens to the deepest yearnings of the people and actively seeking constructive feedback that will aid the governance process,” he said.