Some interested aspirants for the positions of chairman and councillors in Boluwaduro local government council area of Osun State have petitioned the state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola over the nomination of the immediate past chairman of the council, Akeem Tokede into the caretaker committee for the council. In a petition dated 7th July 2021, with reference number; FoCCA/RE.GOV/2021/01 and made available to DAILY POST in Osogbo, the nominees urged Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the Osun State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) not to re-appoint the immediate past Chairman of Boluwaduro local government and any of the immediate past councillors to their last held positions. In the petition which was jointly signed by Dr. Felix Faniran, Boniface Adeyemi and Esther Alani, the nominees said that despite their suggestions, the state government and the party leadership chose to ignore their advice as the immediate past chairman was returned as chairman caretaker management committee thus paving the way for Akeem Tokede to be sworn in for the third term as local government chairman. They noted that “In one of our several visits and meetings with the Chairman of our party, Prince Gboyega Famodun and party leaders from Boluwaduro Local Government, the chairman promised that he would do something about the negative reports and the proposed intention of the party in retaining the immediate local government functionaries in their former positions. “We are highly disappointed that despite this promise the state party chairman did not invite us for a meeting nor fulfil his promise.” They alleged that the past executives refused to organise meetings for party members all through their tenure which they claimed was detrimental to the progress of the party adding that they also took some actions which were detrimental to the aspirations of members in different communities in the Boluwaduro local government area. The aspirants demanded that the House of Assembly put on hold the screening of the nominees from Boluwaduro local government pending the determination of the matter within the party. DAILY POST recalls that the Osun State House of Assembly had approved the nominees to the local government caretaker and had commenced screening for the same nominees. Earlier in the week, some party members had protested at the premises of the State House of Assembly. Also, some protesters had stormed and set up bonfires at the Ilobu country home of the Chairman of the APC Elders Council while protesters from Iwo local government also stormed the Famson Street, Igbona, Osogbo residence of the Osun State APC Chairman.