Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has accused the Federal Government of backing Fulani herdsmen in causing troubles in the country. HURIWA said this in reaction to the attack on Sunday Igboho’s family house in Oyo State on Thursday, describing the development as despicable, reprehensible and intolerable. DAILY POST reported earlier on Thursday that Igboho’s house was attacked by gunmen who abducted his wife and children. The attack came at a time when the activist was preparing to hold a rally for the creation of Oduduwa Republic in Lagos State. And Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko the National Coordinator of HURIWA and Zainab Yusuf, the organization’s Secretary, in a statement on Thursday, said the Buhari government was backing armed Fulani herdsmen in fuelling these attacks against individuals who have spoken out against attempts to take over farmlands in the South West of Nigeria and many other places. ‘Any attack on an Ndigbo is an attack on Nigerians’ – Sunday Igboho warns Buhari According HURIWA, some elements embedded within the Federal government may have a hand in these frequent attacks on Igboho. The group wondered why the police and other security forces always look the other way each time such premeditated attacks occur and always fail to apprehend suspected armed Fulani herdsmen. The rights group noted that what is not clear is how the Buhari government has kept mum to the laud threats against Igboho from the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, MACBAN and has not so far not arrested the real killers of thousands of farmers. “There is no doubt that the Federal government has always and often sided with armed Fulani herdsmen and this open fraternity can be decoded by the silence till now of the Federal government to the vicious attacks on Igangan town in Oyo state in which hundreds of people were massacred,” HURIWA added in the statement. “Sunday Igboho is definitely a marked man especially within the circle of the officials in the office of the President who are sympathetic to Miyetti Allah Cattle Owners Association that backs armed Fulani terrorists.” HURIWA blamed the Federal Government for the recent attack on Sunday Igboho that also left about seven of his supporters killed in his residence. According to the rights group, the Buhari government is pampering armed Fulani herdsmen and Miyetti Allah who make open threats against Igboho and anyone who is against the mass killings by armed herdsmen. HURIWA called for the unconditional release of the wife of Igboho and the arrest, and demanded for prosecution and sanction of all those involved in the kidnapping. HURIWA threatens to drag Buhari to court over alleged killing of ESN operatives by Nigerian army