Empire Kanu, former Nigeria Ambassador to Argentina, has lambasted the Federal Government for what he described as the abduction and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB. Kanu advised the Nigerian authorities to address the germane issues causing agitations instead of persecuting Kanu The former envoy cautioned the government of President Muhammadu Buhari against hunting the IPOB leader as if he(Nnamdi Kanu)were the problem of Nigeria. Empire Kanu, who is also a first republic House of Representatives member, challenged the Buhari administration to demonstrate genuine efforts towards addressing the grievances of secessionist groups In the country. Nnamdi Kanu: Respect IPOB leader’s rights – HURIWA tells Buhari govt The former lawmaker wondered why the government is showing much interest in Nnamdi Kanu who is only agitating for equity and justice while doing little to rein in Fulani herdsmen and bandits ravaging the country. “This union was forced on us by the British. The question is: what is Nnamdi asking for? Is it not a simple referendum? Why is the government afraid of giving a referendum to him and others who believe in the cause he is championing to determine whether or not they want to continue in this union? “Why is it that Britain allowed Ireland and Scotland to have a referendum but is unwilling to allow the Eastern region to have a referendum? “Britain should talk now and leave us alone. If you give us a referendum nobody will agitate again because the outcome of the referendum will solve this quarrel. “So, what is the problem in asking for a referendum? Is the Government not the one harassing Nnamdi Kanu? They are the ones harassing the poor boy.” Kanu demanded that Nigerian Government accord the IPOB leader his legitimate rights after they abducted him back to the country. Nnamdi Kanu: We did not know when IPOB leader came in – Kenya denies complicity Although the Buhari government is yet to make public how and where Nnamdi Kanu was arrested and brought back to Nigeria but multiple reports have it that the IPOB leader was arrested with the help of Kenyan authorities, who detained the separatist leader before handing him over to the Nigerian authorities. He was arraigned before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court last Tuesday and remanded at the Department of State Services, DSS. His trial will continue on July 26, 2021. Meanwhile, the IPOB leader had narrated to his lawyer, Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor how he was beaten mercilessly, tortured and left unconscious by Keyan authorities before being handed over to the Nigerian government.