The caretaker committee chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Ebonyi State, Fred Udeogu, at the weekend vowed that the forthcoming PDP Congresses will be conducted without rancour, crisis or sidelining of chieftains of the party. Udeogu made this known while interacting with newsmen in Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi state, wherein he said the Congresses of the party will be free, fair and credible. According to him: “By November last year, the governor defected to APC and national organ of PDP dissolved the entire structure of the party in Ebonyi and constituted a caretaker committee to hold on the management of the party at the state level to oversee the structure of the party at the local government and wards and they have been renewing it. “By the constitution of the party, it is three months tenure. They have just renewed our tenure again that will last till 1st October 2021 and by that October, we are already at the Congresses. The time table of the Congress has been published. “PDP is a well-organized political party in this country. It has not deviated from the original plans of the founding Fathers. When time comes, those who are interested in contesting for one position to the other will be given chance to contest. Anyone that wins will be supported. “I’m sure that the party leadership from the zone to the national level will give equal chance to the contestants to participate. And the congresses will be free, fair and credible. I am equally sure that there will be no rancour or crisis at the Congresses. This is because we are in opposition and we need to put our house in order. “If I’m asked to run, I will run because i really wants to serve my party, PDP. But if the party says no, then I will continue to be in PDP. Udeogu, however, passed vote of confidence on the national leadership of the party and expressed optimism that there may be no room to shift the Congress. “I believe in the credibility of our zonal and national leadership of PDP, there may be no room for shifting of the Congresses but if there is anything that will warrant such, our party leadership knows the best,” he stated.