Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State, yesterday, imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on Bassambiri and Ogbolomabiri communities in the Nembe Local Government Area of the State. The development was contained in a statement by the Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Mr. Ayibaina Duba. 2. Two soldiers were shot dead yesterday at Adani in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State. This was contained in a statement by the Director Army Public Relations Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu. 3. The leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, has appealed to a Federal High Court in Abuja to transfer him to Kuje prison in Abuja. In an application filed by Ifeanyi Ejiofor, his lawyer, Kanu said he had been subjected to mental and psychological torture in DSS custody. 4. The Katsina Police Command on Wednesday said it is closing some highways ahead of President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit on Thursday (today). The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, SP Gambo Isah stated this in a statement on Wednesday. 5. The management of the University of Lagos on Wednesday shut down the students’ hostels over reported cases of coronavirus on the campus. A member of the school’s senate confirmed this to reporters in the school. 6. The International Criminal Court has acknowledged a 27-page petition filed by Yoruba Nation agitators against President Muhammadu Buhari and other officials. The ICC’s Head of Information and Evidence Unit of the Office of the Prosecutor, Mr. Mark P. Dilon, sent a letter to the petitioners’ lawyer saying the “communication has been duly entered”. 7. The leadership of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide on Wednesday said allowing a northerner to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming 2023 presidential election will increase insurgency and banditry in Nigeria. The group made this known in a statement signed by its Secretary-General Mazi, Okechukwu Isiguzoro. 8. President Muhammadu Buhari is expected in Katsina today to inaugurate the multi-million naira Zobe Water Treatment plant and the newly built Dutsinma-Tsaskiya road, all in Dutsinma Local Government Area. Commissioner for Works, Housing and Transports, Alhaji Tasiu Dandagoro, announced this yesterday. 9. The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) has kicked against the appointment of five rectors said to be unqualified for the job in six newly-established Federal polytechnics. ASUP, through its National President Anderson Ezeibe, expressed its opposition yesterday at the union’s 100th National Executive Council (NEC) meeting at Federal Polytechnic in Auchi, Edo State. 10. The Peoples Democratic Party( PDP) governors in the North alleged yesterday that the Muhammadu Buhari-led  Administration is intimidating them and other members of the opposition party to join the All Progressives Congress(APC). Briefing reporters after the meeting at the Taraba State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, Governor Darius Ishiaku described the action as “undemocratic and unacceptable.”