The Nigerian entertainment industry has been thrown into mourning following the death of Sound Sultan. Sound Sultan died at age 44 after he battled with Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma. Fellow entertainers such as Richard Mofe Damijo, Funke Akindele, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and others have paid their tributes to the late talented singer. @Kate Henshaw wrote “I have never called on you that you have said No to my request and vice versa.You show up every blessed time and on time too! I know Allah will receive you because you gave of yourself every single time, no questions asked.MY ANCESTOR, we joked about how you never aged a day all these years.Rest on my dear friend and brother.” @RMD “Did you know when you wished me happy birthday three days earlier than usual that you won’t have the strength to do it a day later?Words would never be enough my brother.Love you men! @Tems “Legend and an inspiration. Rest on Sound Sultan @Peruzzi “Rest in peace Sound Sultan. Naija Ninja with the vibes.” @Sarkodie “Big shock, Rest well brother.” @Ebuka “This is so heartbreaking, Literally the nicest human being you’ll ever meet. Goodness me. He would have loved this Nigeria win over America so much.True basketball head.” @Funke Akindele “O dun mi o!! Ha o dun mi!! Lanre, ha!! Eleyi dun mi!! Sun re ore mi. Bi mo se soju e, ma se eyin re. Oluwa a duro ti Iyawo ati awon omo e!! Oluwa a pa gbogbo asise e re! Inu mi baje!! Kai! @UcheJumbo “ Sound Sultan is truly gone, May God give his family, friends and fans the grace to bear this.” @Femi Kuti “I am shocked and SAD at the passing of Sound Sultan ( HE IS FAMILY ) I pray our Creator gives his family strength at this time. RIP Sound Sultan.” @FrankEdoho “ The nicest, most humble and talented person you could ever know.
Sound Sultan! Rest in peace.” @MrMacaroni “ Everybody, Oya o join Jagbajantis, solve mathematics, wey dey dabaru our continent.Rest In Peace Sound Sultan! @Kemismallz “ RIP sound sultan . The kindest man.All my love and condolences to his family.”