The Ebonyi State Police Command on Monday arrested a single mother of four children, Miss Nnenwaogo Ogbonna, for allegedly masterminding the gang-rape of an 18-year-old girl whose name is yet to be identified at the time of filing this report. The suspect, Miss Ogbanna a native of Okposi community in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, who was paraded at the police command, however, confessed to the crime. She confessed to be a member of a cult group popularly known as ‘Vie queen confraternity’ but denied killing any person. According to her: “I am a mother of four kids but not married. A member of a cult group. I used to be a member of Black bra before I cross carpeted to Vie queen confraternity. I have not killed anybody. “I use to see the girl at the beer parlour where we use to stay and drink in evening time. On 13th of June, she had problem with my group. She doesn’t drink with us but she is a sales girl at the beer parlour. I came around to plead but she ran away. “They ordered me to get her otherwise they will kill me and my children. And they know my house and I can’t hide. So, we later got to her compound and at that time, a lot of pressure and tension was there because they were with arms. “When we arrived at her compound, I found out that she is from my community, I still turned back and started pleading with them to leave the girl to go but they refused. After that, I now carried the girl and they asked me to meet them at the hotel named Romic. When we got there, they directed me to their hotel room. I didn’t even know that they paid for a room. “They asked me to blindfold her and bring her to their room, which I did and made her remove her clothes, which I did too. And after which they sent me out and I went out and stayed at door. They were many that asked me to go out of the room. ” And so, the first person that went in was Cosoko, Sawo, Jordan, UK etc. They went in after one the other and had carnal knowledge of her. And after that, they said they have initiated her,” she stated. Earlier in a remark, the spokesperson of Ebonyi State Police Command, DSP Loveth Odah, said all the suspects involved in the crime will soon be charged to court.