Proprietors, principals and teachers of private secondary schools in Ondo State have rejected the fee for a seminar allegedly imposed on them by the state government. The state government, through the Ministry of Education, had allegedly directed that public and private secondary schools in the state should present a principal and two teachers that will be among participants of the seminar scheduled to come up next week. It was gathered that the participating school will pay the sum of N4,000 on each of the participants for the proposed workshop tagged ‘Seminar on tackling insecurity in public and private schools in Ondo State’. The seminar, which was said to be organized by the Ondo State Public Service Training Institute was put together as part of moves to tackle the issue of insecurity in the state. While frowning at the arrangement, the proposed participants from private secondary schools described the ‘seminar fee’ which they said was compulsory as strange and unacceptable in view of various financial challenges facing the school business in recent times. They expressed their dissatisfaction with the development in a letter addressed to the Head of Service, John Adeyemo. In the letter signed by the state chairman of Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, ASUSS, Tajudeen Balogun, they urged the state government to reverse its directive and make the seminar free in the interest of all stakeholders. Reacting to the development, the Head of Service while confirming the directive, disclosed that the seminar was not meant to enrich some people. Adeyemo added that efforts were ongoing towards ensuring that schools reduce the number of participants. “The workshop is for security personnel in schools. We are going to give them tips on how to prevent kidnapping in schools. We have interfaced with the unions, especially the ANCOPPS (All Nigeria conference of Principals of Public Secondary Schools) in Akure South Local Government. “We have told them that where they can not afford four participants, they can reduce the number.”