Divine Omajuwa, one of the abducted students of Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, has narrated their encounter with kidnappers. DAILY POST reported that the two DELSU students who were abducted along the Oria-Abraka Road on Sunday night have been rescued. The two victims, identified as Divine Omajuwa and Husseina Hamza of Geology and Pharmacology Departments respectively, were reportedly abducted while on their way to school. One of their friends, Stephen Odje, who was in their company, was shot dead during the attack. The acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, while confirming their release, stated that no arrest has been made as investigation into the incident is still ongoing. However, Divine Omajuwa, while speaking with newsmen said Stephen was accidentally killed by the kidnappers. He said they were on their way to Abraka from Warri when their vehicle was waylaid by the gunmen, who had earlier missed their target, and, out of anger, swooped on them. “I travelled with Hussiena to Warri while Stephen also travelled to Warri separately. While I was planning to return, Stephen called me and asked that he join me back to Abraka. “Unfortunately while approaching Abraka, we saw a vehicle parked on the road and had assumed that it was as a result of an accident, only to discover, after slowing down, that the car was used by kidnappers to block the road. “I tried to reverse the car to escape, but the kidnappers engaged us in a shoot-out, ” he said. Omajuwa further revealed that Stephen was actually killed accidentally by the gunmen in their attempt to escape. “They shot my car tyres while trying to shoot at us. When they saw that he was already wounded they left him behind. “The kidnappers told me that we were not their targets. “They said they trailed someone, but lost their target because they were distracted by a truck carrying farmers and so became angry and stayed on the road for any possible victim. “We were taken away to an unknown destination, ” he said.