Aloy Ejimakor, a lawyer of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on Tuesday, said the trial of the secessionist leader should be opposed but monitored. Ejimakor said Kanu’s trial should be opposed because he was illegally arrested and repatriated to Nigeria; hence there won’t be one. The lawyer said the Nigerian government contravened international laws by illegally rearresting and repatriating the IPOB leader. Biafra: FG will allow Ohanaeze monitor Nnamdi Kanu’s trial – AGF He spoke against the backdrop of those saying they would monitor the trial of Kanu. Following his repatriation to Nigeria, the IPOB leader was rearraigned before Justice Binta Nyako of an Abuja Federal High Court. Justice Nyako had remanded Kanu in custody of the Department of State Services, DSS, while adjourning the trial. Nigerians and foreigners sympathetic to Kanu had vowed to monitor Kanu’s trial in a bid to ensure that the IPOB leader gets a fair trial. However, Ejimakor faulted the decision to monitor the trial. The lawyer recalled the situation of former Adviser to ex-President Shehu Shagari who was illegally abducted in the United Kingdom, UK, in 1984, by the Nigerian government. Ejimakor, who likened Dikko’s situation to Kanu, warned that Nigeria would suffer severe consequences as a result of the abduction of the IPOB leader. In a statement, he said Nigeria would “answer to Britain, to the international community and even to Kenya” over Kanu’s illegal rearrest. He said: “Lately, some individuals and civic groups have, in some show of support for Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, indicated that they will ‘monitor’ his trial. In the same vein, some have also called for a fair trial. Fair trial of what? Illegality in high places? Buhari govt hails Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s position on Nnamdi Kanu, IPOB “While it’s commendable that Kanu has attracted such avalanche of support across the spectrum, it’s important to make it clear from the outset that there won’t be any trial to monitor. None. Kanu cannot be tried on the basis of this extraordinary rendition that brought him in Nigeria. “If you truly support Kanu, you don’t need to monitor his trial or ensure he gets a fair trial. What you need to do is to oppose his trial. Saying that you will monitor his trial gives the impression of bestowing legality to the illegality that brought him to Nigeria. “What I can tell you for now, assuming you don’t know it already is that Kanu’s rendition will live in infamy because it violated the extradition law of Kenya (the country of abduction), Britain (the country of domicile and citizenship) and even Nigeria (the country of destination). “If you add other municipal and international laws, conventions and protocols to which Nigeria is subject but chose to break just to bring Kanu to Nigeria, you begin to see why you must oppose his trial instead of monitoring it.”