Nine kidnapped victims have been rescued from the hands of notorious bandits in Kirijam village, Dandume LGA of Katsina State. According to a police report, the armed bandits stormed the village at about midnight of Thursday, shooting sporadically into the air before they finally disappeared with nine persons from the village. This was disclosed in a press release signed by the state Police PRO, Isah Gambo on behalf of the Commissioner of Police in the State. “On 01/07/2021 at about 23:00hrs, bandits in their numbers, shooting sporadically with AK 47 rifles, attacked Kirijam village, Mahuta Ward of Dandume LGA and kidnapped nine (9) persons,” he said. However, through the quick intervention by the DPO, Dandume Police Division and his men, who laid ambush in wait for the bandits at one of their possible exit routes, at Kadawan Maikomo village in Sabuwa LGA, they were able to engage the notorious bandits in a fierce gun duel that eventually saw the nine kidnapped victims freed, leaving many bandits with gunshot wounds in the rescue mission. Police engage bandits in gun duel, kill 14 in Benue The Police Commissioner, Sanusi Bubba, commended the brevity and the tactical operational strategy employed by the Dandume Police team to subdue the notorious bandits who fled into the forest scathed and disoriented. The police team recovered among other items, GSM phones and food items stolen from the village by the bandits. “The doggedness, uncommon courage and tactical operational strategy adopted by the Police officers made the bandits flee into the forest with varying degrees of bullets wounds. In the course of profiling the scene, all the nine (9) abducted persons were rescued unhurt and some GSM phones and food items stolen from the village by the hoodlums, were also recovered,” Bubba said. The state Police Chief seeks more cooperation from members of the public in the areas of providing credible information about bandits and their informants to security agencies at the frontline. He assured members of the public that the onslaught against bandits and criminal elements will continue until they are all made to face the wrath of the law. “The Command urges members of the public to cooperate with security agencies working at the frontline areas by giving them credible information on bandits and their collaborators, especially those supplying them with arms and ammunition, informants and other essential commodities. “The Command assures members of the public that it remains resolute and committed in the ongoing fight against recalcitrant bandits until they are arrested and dealt with according to the extant laws of the land,” Sanusi Buba said. Two soldiers, many terrorists killed as troops battle Boko Haram in Borno