The Zamfara State Deputy Governor, Barrister Mahadi Aliyu, has said that the defection of his principal, Governor Bello Matawalle to the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not affect their working relationship. Aliyu said this during a press conference, insisting that he will remain in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), which he joined in 1999. He vowed to remain there as he and his father had passed through a lot as members of the party. “My impeachment is tasking and since Allah has brought me to this position how is this possible for someone to impeach me?” he queried. The Deputy Governor said the circumstance that brought the present government, which is the Supreme Court verdict, is a clear indication that all that is required of those in the government is to thank God almighty for the honor and remain in the PDP. “The last assignment he gave me was to represent him in Uyo for the PDP Governors Forum and from there we moved to Calabar and returned together with the Sokoto State Governor,” he said. On whether the Governor had consulted him before his defection, Aliyu said neither the Governor, himself nor any of his associates consulted him on the matter. “I had been hearing of the plan defection just like you and when the rumour became pronounced people especially journalists have been calling to make inquiries if I am defecting together with the Governor but I told them I am not aware not until the 29th of June 2021 around 6:00 when the Governor finally defected to the APC,” he said. He explained that to work with an APC Governor in a similar scenario had happened in Nigeria where a Governor and his Deputy worked under a different political umbrella and most of the time they finished their tenure together. “The mandate I signed with the people of Zamfara is to work as Deputy Governor for four years and I am hopeful that the Governor would see reasons why he should allow us to finish our first mandate of four years,” Aliyu said. On the possibility of dragging the Governor to court, the Deputy Governor said “it is the responsibility of the PDP national Chairman of the party, Mr. Uche Secondus to see to the possibility of securing the stolen mandate of Zamfara State back to the PDP.” He noted that the task ahead of him is to see how he was going to work to assist Zamfara people, and he assured that he will do everything possible to discharge his new mandate as the PDP leader in the state.