A 38-year-old man, Semiu Oyewo, who was allegedly arrested along Ile-Ife/Ibadan road with dry human skull claimed he has no knowledge it is an offence. He said that the skull was meant to treat someone who is suffering chronic daily headaches. The suspect was paraded by the Osun State Police Command headquarters at ring road, Osogbo on Tuesday. Parading the suspects at the state police command n Osogbo, the State Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokode, said the herbalist, Oyewo was apprehended along Ile-Ife/Ibadan road with one human skull, snail and voodoo. Cross River: Pastor arrested with human skull “On July 7, 2021 around 8am, the police patrol team on routine highway patrol along Ile-Ife/Ibadan road, intercepted one Honda Accord vehicle with Reg. No. AGL 412 CD black colour driven by the suspect a 38-year-old man, Semiu Oyewo of Alamole area, Ondo road, Ile-Ife, searched the vehicle and recovered the exhibits.” The suspect told journalists that, “I am an herbalist, I didn’t know that having possession of dry skull is an offence. I even fought with the mobile police that arrested me. I want to use it to treat someone who is suffering chronic headache,” he said. He said during the course of investigation and interrogation, the suspect confessed that, he is an herbalist and bought the suspected human skull from his co-herbalist one Ige aka Igwe of Apomu who had absconded. While speaking the CP said “The said suspected human skull was bargained for twenty five thousand naira only (N25, 000.00) while he paid twenty thousand naira only (N20, 000.00) to later balance five thousand naira only (N5, 000.00). Two arrested allegedly with human skulls at Muslim cemetery in Kaduna “The Police navigated its investigation to the house of the arrested suspected and recovered various ‘Juju’ and fetish items which they hid in the bush.” The police boss said the gang of bag snatchers who were also robbing POS outlet were arrested on July 5, 2021 after receiving a distress call at Owode Ede area.