The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has expressed concern with the massive destruction of no fewer than 45 farmlands by suspected Fulani herdsmen belonging to 25 families. It said the farmalnds were destroyed on 9th July, 2021 in Zowrru village of Ta’agbe in Miango district of Bassa Local Government Area (LGA) of Plateau State. The forum noted with dismay the cutting down of food crops with cutlasses in 45 Miango farmlands is coming on the trail of similar destruction of farms in some settlements in Riyom Local Government Area of the same state. The National Secretary of the forum, Dr Isuwa Dogo, in a statement, stated that while the MBF is alarmed by the level of deliberate act of wickedness perpetrated against poor farmers, the forum called on relevant arms of government and security agencies to save farmers from further destruction of their farmlands in order to avoid looming hunger. According to the forum, this coldhearted destruction of crops by these marauding outlaws amidst the raging security challenges facing Nigerians, especially communities in the Middle Belt Region, does not only foreshadow food insecurity for the nation, but is capable of engendering communal conflicts. It explained, “Against the backdrop of fears over imminent low production of food crops and attendant rising cost of foodstuff, the resort by herders to destroy farmlands in order to graze their animals must be stamped out to pave way for optimal agricultural activities. Therefore, the need to arrest further destruction of farmlands must be seen as a central necessity so as to protect farmlands against destruction.” The statement added, “ln the light of deliberate efforts by dastardly outlaws to throw the nation into a dungeon of hunger and food insecurity, there is need for constant surveillance and protection of farmlands to guide against plots by undesirable elements to plot against efforts by farmers to attain a peak level of agricultural production.” The forum called on Governor Simon Lalong, and chairmen of affected LGAs to thoroughly investigate the matter and apprehend perpetrators of this heinous act with a view to serving them with an appropriate punishment. It also called on the Plateau State Government to assist farmers with some form of assistance to enable them to attain increased agricultural productivity. The forum called on Nigerian farmers not to be discouraged in the face of glaring attempts to frustrate them as the path to national development cannot be attained by a country that cannot feed its citizens. MBF forum noted that it is aware that ahead of the 2021 harvest season, various agencies of government have predicted food scarcity in the coming year due to either flooding or drought, among other factors, stressing that the current efforts at destroying farmlands are dangerous for a country suffering from rising inflationary trends caused by non-productive capacity in many sectors of the national economy.