Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. A Federal High Court in Abuja, yesterday, cleared former Finance Minister, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, of the controversy over her participation in the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) scheme. In a ruling on Wednesday, Justice Taiwo Taiwo, held that Adeosun was not qualified to have participated in the scheme when she graduated at 22 years, because she was then a British citizen. 2. The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Farouk Yahaya, on Wednesday, said his men have sent many bandits to God to answer for their crimes. Speaking with state house correspondents after his elevation to the rank of Lieutenant General, Yahya said the military has been giving bandits a tough time. 3. Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State, yesterday, said the prohibition of herders from grazing openly in some states will not work. He spoke when he featured on a Channels TV programme on Wednesday. 4. The Senate, on Wednesday, approved the request of President Muhammadu Buhari to borrow N2.3 trillion (about $6.183 billion) to fund the deficit in the 2021 Appropriation Act. This followed the consideration of the report of the Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, chaired by Senator Clifford Ordia (PDP, Edo). 5. A former military governor of Kaduna State, Col. Abubakar Umar (retd.), on Wednesday knocked the All Progressives Congress and President Muhammadu Buhari for giving undue attention to the arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu than banditry and kidnapping ravaging the country. The former governor stated this in a statement titled, ‘Nigeria: A nation challenged.’ 6. Power generation companies on Wednesday declared that the country’s available electricity capacity had dropped by about 3,000 megawatts. Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies, Dr Joy Ogaji, said the available generation capacity plunged from about 9,000MW to 6,000MW. 7. Speaker of the Ghanaian parliament, Alban Bagin, has promised that the impasse between his country and Nigerian traders in Ghana would be resolved soon. Bagin stated this, yesterday, when he addressed members of the House of Representatives, at plenary. 8. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Scientific Equipment Development Initiative, SEDI, Enugu State, Prof. Simon Ndubuisi has been reportedly assassinated in Enugu State. The Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, in Enugu State, ASP Daniel Ndukwe confirmed the incident. 9. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has criticised the Solicitor-General of Alberta in Canada, Kelechi Amadi, over his comment on the arrest of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). This was contained in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Dr Umar Gwandu. 10. The Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has summoned the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, over a parallel state secretariat the minister opened in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. The National Secretariat sent two letters to the minister inviting him to come and explain why disciplinary measures should not be taken against him for the action.