The Peoples Democratic Party on Tuesday applauded the Senate for declining the confirmation of Lauretta Onochie, an aide of President Muhammadu Buhari, for appointment as National Commissioner representing Delta State, at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). DAILY POST had reported that Onochie’s nomination was rejected by the Senate for reasons bordering on potential violation of the Federal Character Principle. The Upper house while confirming Prof. Muhammad Sani Kallah, (Katsina), Prof. Kunle Ajayi (Ekiti), Saidu Ahmad (Jigawa), Dr Baba Bila (North-East) and Prof. Abdullahi Zuru (North-West) said it was against the Federal Character Principle to have two persons from the same state as INEC National Commissioner. Committee Chairman, Kabiru Gaya cited the presence of Mrs May Agbamuche Mbu from Delta, as a National Commissioner of INEC, as a reason for her rejection. Reacting, PDP, in a statement titled, ‘INEC: Onochie’s Rejection At Senate Is Victory For Nigerians, Democracy- PDP’ and signed by National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the rejection of Onochie saved Nigeria from a serious crisis that may befall the country in the 2023 general elections. The statement read in part, “The PDP asserts that the rejection of Lauretta Onochie by Nigerians has saved the nation from a very serious crisis as well as salvaged INEC and the entire Nigerian electoral process from ruinous pollution that would have led to the collapse of our democratic order. “The party asserts that Onochie’s vexatious nomination, in a total affront to paragraph 14 of the 3rd schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), was a very dangerous machination by the Buhari-led APC Presidency against our electoral process, in the attempt to subvert the will of the people in the 2023 elections. “The APC (All Progressives Congress), in spite of its shenanigans, is aware that it will have difficulties winning election at any level in a free, fair and credible election and as such it is determined to rig every process ahead of the 2023 elections. “Our party, therefore, commends Nigerians including civil society organizations, the media as well as other political parties, for joining forces with the PDP in fighting for the sanctity of our electoral process by resisting Onochie’s nomination.”