The Imo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has described the suspension of six members of the state House of Assembly, as undemocratic and unacceptable. The opposition party in State said the Assembly leadership reserved no right to suspend duly elected lawmakers whose mandates were still jealousy protected by their constituents. It accused the Assembly speaker, Paul Emeziem, of acting his principal’s script by readily carrying out his (Governor’s) instructions at a mere snap of finger, a situation the party described as unfortunate to the state legislature and Imo people at large. In a press statement signed by the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Ogubundu Nwadike, the party condemned the inclusion of two PDP members, Anyadike Nwosu of Ezinnihitte-Mbaise state constituency who is the Assembly Minority Leader and Philips Ejiogu of Owerri-north state constituency, in the said suspension. The statement reads, “Imo PDP recognizes that the suspended lawmakers are elected representatives of Imo people. The party notes that to a very large extent, the lawmakers are answerable to their various constituents who elected them. “We are quite aware that the rules and regulations of the Assembly does not Invision the hich-hunting of the lawmakers by their equals who are privileged to be organizing the running and working of the House as it the case of 9th Assembly. “Our party considers as not cogent enough the reasons floated by the leadership of the House for the act of suspension of elected lawmakers. “They are simply too vindictive, high-handed, provocative and dehumanizing. The legislature is an arm of government and not a department of the executive arm of Government. “The system in Imo state where the executive arm arrogates so much power and authority over the legislative arm is, to say the least, undemocratic and unhealthy. This must be jettisoned in order to allow true democracy to flourish and blossom in the state. “The Governor is directly or indirectly sponsoring acts that are capable of breaching the relative peace of Imo people. “He should leave Imo state House of Assembly alone to make useful laws for her people rather than interfering in her affairs and throwing orders around. “Witch-hunting and hounding elected lawmakers, particularly those from PDP extraction, is not in tandem with the governor’s much talked about restoring peace in the state. “The party, therefore, urge those responsible for the ill-advised suspension to, as a matter of urgency, rescind the decision and recall the lawmakers without further delay or leave the party (PDP) to do so.”