The Ogun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has reacted to the controversy trailing last Saturday’s governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State. DAILY POST reported that the election, which was conducted by a committee led by the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has been rejected by other aspirants, who said Abiodun ‘manufactured’ figures for Sen. Andy Uba, whom he declared winner of the primary election. DAILY POST gathered that an internal report by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) reportedly says there was no APC primary election supervised by it in Anambra on June 26. Buhari meets Gbenga Daniel, Dimeji Bankole after joining APC Reacting, the PDP said it is sincerely delighted of its unwavering conviction that one cannot possibly give what he lacks. “It is on the premise of this infallible truth that our great party stands to condemn the shameful role played by Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun in Anambra State in his capacity as the Chairman of Anambra APC Governorship Primary Election which took place on June 26, 2021,” the party asserted. Speaking with DAILY POST on Friday, the Ogun PDP Publicity Secretary, Akinloye Bankole, stated that, “The undemocratic disposition of Abiodun has, once again reinforced our fervent belief that he should not be trusted with anything that has to do with civil and honest democratic contest.” Bankole alleged that, “we are also aware that Prince Dapo Abiodun enjoys a very close personal relationship with his billionaire friend, Authur Eze who invested heavily in his governorship aspiration in 2019. Therefore, it is not a surprise that he only went to Awka to do the biddings of a political godfather to favour one of their own, Chief Andy Uba. “From the above, It is now established that our governor lacks any known democratic credential of championing peaceful, civil and honest democratic competition.” According to Bankole, the PDP is not surprised that the governor now plans through the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) to reduce elective positions at the local government levels in Ogun to mere meal tickets to his cronies in APC. He spoke further, “For us, the consistent attempt by the ruling APC government in Ogun State under the watch of Mr. Governor to frustrate our great party, being the major opposition party from participating in the forthcoming LG election in Ogun state is a direct confirmation of Mr Governor’s habit of avoiding healthy competition with his APC. I can’t do everything or please everyone – Gov Abiodun “From all indications, it is crystal clear that the ruling APC government has made up its filthy mind, just as the governor did at the Anambra APC primary election, to use its appointees at OGSIEC under the Chairmanship of Mr. Tunde Osibodu to also concoct none existent results in favour of his party members in the forthcoming LG election. “This is because it is the only way the governor can retain his grandiose stronghold on the finances and fortunes of our Local Governments. “As a peace-loving political party who enjoys unending tradition of solidarity with the good people of Ogun State, we hereby, once again call on all men of good conscience and indeed, members of the public to hold the governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun and OGSIEC responsible for any form of electoral theft and irregularities during the forthcoming LG election in Ogun State,” Bankole maintained.