Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, has directed Muslim Ummah to look out for the new moon of Dhul Hijja 1442AH. Abubakar, who is also the President-General, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), made the call on Friday. Dhul Hijja is the 12th month in the Islamic calendar; a month of sacrifice. 2. Bandits on Thursday killed at least 40 people in attacks on five communities in Faru District of Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The spokesman of the state police command, SP Muhammad Shehu, confirmed the incident. 3. Tears flowed and tributes poured in yesterday for Prophet T B. Joshua, founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), who was buried at the church premises in Ikotun, Lagos, on Friday. Joshua died after a church service at SCOAN on June 5, few days to his 58 birthday anniversary. 4. The Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) says between May 2011 and February 2021, over 76,000 persons were reported to have been killed in the country. NGF Chairman and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi said this in Abuja during the launch of the NGF Peace and Inclusive Security Initiative (PISI). 5. Bandits have killed two mobile policemen and two civilians in fresh an attack at Komponi Bobi in Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State. The Police Public Relations Officer in the State, DSP Wasiu Abiodun confirmed the incident. 6. Christian leaders and parents of the abducted students of Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna, yesterday converged on the school premises at Kujama in Chikun Local Government Area to pray for divine intervention for the release of their children. 7. A 33-year old breadwinner has allegedly been tortured to death by a combined team of policemen attached to the Yelwa Division and a vigilante group in Bauchi State. The Commissioner of Police, Bauchi State, Sylvester Alabi, who confirmed the incident, said that five people have been arrested. 8. The Community Court of Justice of the Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, yesterday, merged all the cases brought before it by different applicants against the Federal Government of Nigeria over the suspension of the microblogging platform, Twitter in Nigeria. 9. The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi has begged President Muhammadu Buhari to forgive Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho. In a letter to the president yesterday, Oluwo noted that elders and traditional rulers in Yoruba land warned him when he embarked on agitation for self-determination. 10. Not less than 22 political parties besieged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters in Abuja on Friday to submit names and particulars of candidates for the November 6 Anambra governorship election. The parties, which were part of the 74 parties deregistered by INEC last year, insisted they must be on the ballot papers.