The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has reacted to the rearrest of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB by the Muhammadu Buhari government. Speaking on Arise TV on Thursday, Wike demanded that the Buhari government go after the bandits and Miyetti Allah and the others the same manner he did to Nnamdi Kanu. Nnamdi Kanu, as DAILY POST reported earlier, was arrested at the weekend, arraigned before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court on Tuesday and remanded at the Department of State Service, DSS, custody. As for Wike, Buhari must show the same seriousness in going after bandits kidnapping and killing innocent citizens in different parts of the country same way he was determined to apprehend Kanu. The governor said though he is not in line with Kanu’s belief, the authorities must avoid punishing him simply because he is from a particular section of the country. Arrest Miyetti Allah leaders like you did Nnamdi Kanu – Ortom tells Buhari “Let people know that you’re not prosecuting him because he comes from a particular section of the country. You must also make provision to say all these people who have been causing security crises in Nigeria are also prosecuted,” he said. “Let’s not make a hullabaloo about the prosecution of Nnamdi Kanu. I don’t believe in his principles. I’ve come out, and I’ve said that you cannot annex my state to be part of your own. But that doesn’t mean that you’ll not allow the law to take its cause. “The same way that you have arrested Nnamdi Kanu should also be the same way that all others who you have known should be brought to book to face the wrath of the law. “You cannot discriminate. You cannot say because Nnamdi Kanu is from a particular area, let us do this. The same principle must be applied to the bandits, Miyetti Allah and others.” Many groups and individuals in the country have called on the Buhari government to apply caution in handling the IPOB leader. And the Federal Government on Thursday promised to not go outside the law in handling the matters concerning Nnamdi Kanu. Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, during a press conference in Lagos on Thursday said the government said that the IPOB leader will receive a fair trial as being demanded by individuals and groups. 