The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State has expressed worry on Governor Hope Uzodinma’s silence over the recent ban on open grazing by the Southern Governors Forum (SGF). The opposition party in the state said that the Governor has betrayed his guilt and acute inferiority complex by consciously dissociating himself from the series of meetings held by the Governor’s Forum. The party, in a release signed by its Director General of New Media, Collins Opuruzor, accused the Governor of saddling himself with worthless parties with expensive wines and champagnes while burning regional and national issues are being discussed by duly elected Governors of the Southern states. According to him, “the Governor has shown his weakness and fear to associate with his fellow Governors. If not, why has he consciously absent himself from the series of meetings held by the forum. “When the forum recently held its meeting in Enugu which is a shouting distance from Imo State, the Governor refused to come. Uzodinma reacts to killing of five gunmen by Police in Imo “Just yesterday being the 5th of July, another meeting of the southern Governors was held in Lagos where Jide Sanwo-Olu played host, Senator Hope Uzodinma again was nowhere to be found. “It is perplexing that while Senator Uzodinma has maintained a suspicious distance from gatherings of duly elected Governors to brainstorm on burning regional and national issues with a view to finding lasting solutions to the challenges, he has instead saddled himself with parties with expensive wines and champagnes. “Very recently, he has engaged in forgery, blackmail and propaganda against citizens of his own state. Hardly does a day pass without his regime concocting fake press releases and photoshopped images of innocent citizens to frame their perceived political enemies. “Our party considers the decision by Senator Hope Uzodinma never to participate in the affairs of Southern Nigeria, as a pointer to the depth he has sunk deeper in guilt and inferiority complex occasioned by insoluble legitimacy crisis. “It is unfortunate that Imo state has fallen in the hands of the Governor who had betrayed his illiteracy and insensitivity to the importance of having a functional Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General. “The Governor, out of his inexperience, has run the state affairs for almost three months without the Commissioner for Justice. What a government! “It has become very glaring that the recent demand by our party that Senator Hope Uzodinma resigns from office, was patriotic, timely and should be heeded without further delay.” Imo Prison Break: Hope Uzodinma reacts, sets up commission of inquiry