The Olowu of Owu-Kuta in Osun State, Oba Adekunle Makama has warned agitators against the move to disintegrate Nigeria. Makama said the government would not allow secessionists to succeed. He described the calls for Nigeria’s break up by agitators as unpatriotic. The traditional ruler, who is the Chairman, Council of Owu Obas and Chiefs, spoke while addressing journalists in his palace on Sunday, NAN reports. Makama noted that he would never support the idea and the calls for secession of Nigeria. The traditional ruler, however, threw his weight behind restructuring through devolution of power. He said: “The agitation for secession by some separatists and unpatriotic Nigerians is uncalled for. I am not in support of it. “I have never been part of it and nobody can force me as a traditional ruler to support such because no one can shave another person’s head in his absence. “No serious government would like to see the country in turmoil; the separatist agitation is like waging war against the state. “Nobody dare face the federal might and succeed. Nigeria cannot afford to face another civil war. “The banditry and Boko Haram insurgency that we have at hand are more than enough. So I will advise the agitators to dialogue with the federal government. “Even at the council of Obas’ meeting, nobody ever discussed secession. What we discussed was restructuring, because if you restructure, power will be devolved.” His comment is coming at a time the Nigerian government clamped down on leaders of some agitators in the country. Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, was rearrested and repatriated to Nigeria to continue his trial. Kanu is currently cooling his heels in the custody of the Department of State Services, DSS, while his trial continues. Similarly, the Ibadan residence of Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, also known as Igboho was invaded by the DSS. Some of Igboho’s associates were arrested, while guns and charms were allegedly recovered from his house. Igboho is currently on the run as nobody has seen him since the attack on his residence.