The National President of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Olutoyin Ayinde, has decried the attitude of state governments over the non compliance with the proper town planning of the country. Ayinde disclosed that states such as Ondo, Ebonyi and Bayelsa were among the one-third states in the country that were yet to domesticate the Nigerian Urban and Regional Planning Law of 1992, which he said became an Act in 2004. According to the NITP President, the law prescribed that plans should be prepared from the national to state and local government levels. Ayinde stated this at the Secretariat of the NITP during a press briefing held in Akure, the Ondo State capital, during his visit to the state as part of his nationwide tour to assess the state of physical planning in Nigeria. While emphasizing that urban planning thrives on rule of law, the NITP President, who was a former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos State, appealed to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and some of his colleagues to intervene in the affected area by showing adequate commitment and ensure the full implementation of the law. He added that physical planning being the bedrock of any development, also answered to good governance. Ayinde said “It is important that the state’s administration invests in the preparation of physical development plans for towns and villages in this state, beginning with the state’s Regional Plan, because development without plans will only lead to chaos. “This would require the Governor’s political will, as well as adequate funding to employ the relevant manpower and procure the requisite tools (maps and imageries) and equipment for constant monitoring for efficiency and effectiveness. “To make this possible, it is required that this law is domesticated at the State level. The truth is that Ondo State is yet to domesticate the Law. “Urban Planning thrives on rule of law. The Institute urges the Governor, Arakunrin Akeredolu to intervene in this area, show adequate commitment and ensure the full implementation of the Law. “Every time town planning fails, it is a glaring reflection of what governance is because town planning is the tool for actualizing the vision of the government.” While stressing that with Ondo State highly endowed with qualified urban planning professionals, Ayinde lamented that the state should not be bequeathed with unplanned developments. According to him, infrastructural development should not be equated with urban planning, noting that if proper planning was not carried out before development, such infrastructure would be a waste without serving its purpose.