An Osogbo Magistrates’ Court, on Monday, granted the Imam of Kamorudeen Society of Nigeria, masquerade carrier and other worshippers bail over alleged assault. Recall that the Imam of the Islamic group, Kazeem Yunus and three other members Salawu Jimoh, Alarape Sulaimon and Raimi Saheed – masqueraders; Ifashola Esuleke, Adeosun Kola, Idowu Hakeem – were remanded in police custody on Thursday in connection with an alleged attack between Masquerade worshippers and the Islamic group, which claimed one life in Osogbo, the capital Osun State. DAILY POST reported that the case was brought before magistrate Asimiyu Adebayo while the state prosecutor from the state ministry of justice, Moses Faremi prayed to take charge of the case from the police prosecutor – the plea, which was granted last Thursday. Police arrest masquerade, Imam, others over attack in Osogbo The case could not be heard on Thursday due to the conclusion of the counsels from both parties and backed by the state counsel that the charge sheet brought by the police was defective. On Monday, the custodians of the masquerade, Ifashola Esuleke, Adeosun Kola, Idowu Hakeem Abimbola and others now at large were charged on four-count for willfully and unlawfully vandalized the mosque, damaged a Toyota Camry with Registration Number Lagos GGE 954 BV belonging to Muslim faithful and engaged in a public fight and acted in a manner that led to breach of public peace. While the Chief Imam of Kamorudeen mosque Yunus, and three others were charged on five-count for assaulting two police officers attached to Oja-Oba Police Division, obstructed Police officers from performing their lawful duties and Assault. The offences are contrary to and punishable under Section 451, 517, 83, 356(5) 356(6), 197, 355 of Criminal Code Laws of Osun State, 2002. However, the seven defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them. Seven suspects in court over alleged Masquerade/Muslim attack
The counsel to the Muslims Kazeem Babatunde and counsel to the traditional worshippers Abimbola Ige applied for the bail of their clients. Magistrate Adebayo, however, granted their bail with N1 million each and one surety with evidence of landed property in Osun State. He, hereby Adjourned the case till September 13, 2021.