The Speaker of Abia State House of Assembly, Chinedum Enyinnaya Orji has lauded the massive developmental strides of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu-led administration in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of Abia. Speaking at a commissioning ceremony of the reconstructed Immaculate Heart Avenue, Umungasi Aba, Osisioma Ngwa LGA, the Abia Speaker hailed the Governor for building quality and durable roads that will last for years upon using the rigid pavement technology, especially in Aba. He said the economic importance of Immaculate Heart Avenue cannot be overemphasized because the road is strategic in the commercial city of Aba. Orji emphasised that with the infrastructural facelift in Aba as embarked upon by the State government, the internally generated revenue of the State will improve. According to him, “We are proud of you, we will continue to support you, don’t listen to detractors because anyone that will come out to say you are not doing well is simply an enemy of the State”. Meanwhile, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu had promised to complete the Osisioma flyover, Eziukwu, Omuma, Ngwa Roads and other strategic projects embarked upon by his administration before the end of his tenure. The Governor who stated this while commissioning the newly reconstructed Immaculate Heart Avenue reassured that no road done by his administration will be revisited by his successor as the roads are done with rigid pavement technology. Ikpeazu said it was wrong to build roads without drainages, assuring that the Immaculate Heart Avenue road has a life span of nothing less than 25 years. The State Chief Executive also promised to continue to work selflessly for Ndi Abia until he leaves office, and thanked the Speaker and members of the Abia State House of Assembly for being key players in the success of his administration. His words, “I want to thank members of the House of Assembly for their support. Without their support, it will be difficult to get the funds to do these roads. I want to ask them to continue to support us because the power we hold is in trust for the people and the essence of Government is to do that which will lead to a better life for the people”, the Governor said. Ikpeazu-led Govt has provided safe haven for journalism to thrive in Abia – Okiyi Kalu