The Ooni of Ife has described agriculture as the bedrock of wealth distribution and global prosperity which is able to free Africa from unemployment, hunger and poverty. The monarch was quoted as making this statement in a letter announcing the appointment of Adama J. Adama as the Managing Director of Royal African Farm Limited. Royal African Farm, according to the monarch, will be addressing the alternative strategic principles that can unlock young populations superb qualities by encouraging their agro-innovative skills, business of agriculture as well as marketing proficiencies in building one of Africa’s biggest agribusiness that is youth centric. Ayobami O. Oyedare, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ooni of Ife Global Outreach (OIGO), in the letter dated July 1st, 2021 and addressed to the Farm4Me founder, said with the appointment of Adama as the new helmsman, Royal African Farm would drastically reduce the extreme scale of importation and promote entrepreneurial culture through modern agro marketing enterprise, mechanization and industrialization.”  The letter reads in part, “Therefore, and in line with this appointment, you will be expected to work hand in hand with the leadership of the OIGO and the office of Dr. Ayobami as the Chief Executive (CEO) promoting the overall vision of the Royal African Farm. You will be expected to guide, promote, and implement the brand of the Royal African Farm and its products globally helping dynamic farmers’ most especially young generation of farmers to find meaning and passion for life through Agribusiness as they dream new dreams and rightly become custodians of their own wealth creation and our common legacy.  “As the great African American civil rights leader, Martin Luther King Jr., eloquently affirmed, “our young
generation are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Through Royal African Farm and its practicable methodology, you will be expected to negotiate potential partnership and collaboration which might benefit its development, building market enterprises for its products, work in tandem with the Olofin Products unit, as well as preserving and interpreting rightly its age long mission and ethos of operation. Your office will be expected to build consortium alliance with international value chains, agencies, government ministries, financial houses, import and export corporations, one stop shops and specialized Agriculture universities etc. that are well equipped to bring on board strategic, technical and sustainable supports to the Royal African Farm as a measure that is geared towards socioeconomic transformation through the Royal Stool of Ooni of Ife. “Such endeavours and networks would enhance His Imperial Majesty (H.I.M)’s mission of subjugating the economic
challenges that are facing Africa’s young populations through Agribusiness.”