TECNO is venturing into new heights by announcing its newest flagship smartphone, PHANTOM X. Debuting on July 1st 2021, PHANTOM X features an elegant design of 3D Borderless Screen and the industry’s first silk glass back cover. The combination of the 50MP Ultra-Night camera and the industry’s leading 1/1.3 super large senor, 48MP Ultra-Clear Selfie camera with 105°Ultra-Wide angle, not to mention the AI-assisted Super Night Mode and 50mm Golden Portrait, provides a big leap in camera performance. Powered by a 4700mAh, 256G+8G large memory and a newly-updated HiOS 7.6 system, PHANTOM X empowers and supports every experience of users’ lives and work.  Committed to bringing users bold and extraordinary innovations in design, technology, and complete user experience, PHANTOM X empowers consumers to feel their extraordinary best throughout all their special moments in life. PHANTOM X will be available in two artistic colors; Van Gogh’s Starry Night and Monet’s Summer Garden. Customers can get PHANTOM X through the online one-stop website www.mobile-phantom.com and shop at local TECNO stores across Africa and other countries including Pakistan, Turkey, Columbia and more. “We’re proud to introduce the all-new PHANTOM X. It is an extraordinary beginning that encompasses TECNO’s vision, encapsulated and reframed for a new audience of more demanding consumers,” said Stephen Ha, General Manager of TECNO. “PHANTOM X isn’t just an innovative high-end smartphone; it empowers the modern extraordinary individual’s way of life – being bold to reject the ordinary, always striving for success and with the ambition to achieve new heights. Holding this spirit, we aim to continually make breakthroughs in product and design innovations as we have delivered through PHANTOM X.” Extraordinary Beauty of Design PHANTOM X is equipped with a unique 3D Borderless Screen, embedded with a unique arc design at the right angle of 36.5° to accommodate a comfortable grip in the hand. The top-notch 6.7″ screen supports an enjoyable experience for videos and games. Unbounded by bezels, the 3D borderless screen features a large bending angle up to 70°, making text and images blend seamlessly into infinity around the edges of the device. The finest AMOLED display projects a streamlined and fluid vision of the world around you.  The new PHANTOM X offers the industry’s first curved glass surface etched texture. The innovative silk glass is based on a series of complex tests and manufacturing procedures, finally creating the elegant touch of “silk delicacy” and “glass sparkle”. The extraordinarily etched textured design presents vertical refined lines, producing pure artistic expression based on exquisite craftsmanship.  PHANTOM X comes in two classical colours: Van Gogh’s Starry Night Blue and Monet’s Summer Garden. Van Gogh’s Starry Night brings a stellar display of the mysteriously nebulous sky. Monet’s Summer Garden is a display of warm and exuberant colours. Both are perfect options for bold explorers and innovators.  Extraordinary Pleasure of Technology Extraordinary Camera Performance The powerful camera system of the PHANTOM X device consists of triple rear and dual front cameras. PHANTOM X adopts an industry-leading 50MP Ultra-Night Camera with a 1/1.3-inch Ultra-Large Sensor, making it easy to shoot crisp, professional photos. The 50MP Ultra-Night camera featuring 1/1.3-inch Ultra-Large sensor can take in 33% more light from the outer environment compared to a camera featuring 108MP and 1/1.5-inch sensor. With a wider ISO range and less noise, better exposure, users are empowered with the ability to capture unexpected beauty with a pixel size of 2.4μm in 4-in-1 mode, whilst not having to sacrifice on image quality even in complex lighting conditions.  Imagine taking a selfie with PHANTOM X’s 48MP Ultra-Clear Selfie camera, you can capture every detail such as: clearer skin textures, sharper facial features, and even brighter smiles. It is ideal for both individual and group selfies with the AI-assisted 105°Ultra-Wide angle. With the self-developed AI face recommendation switching algorithm, when multiple faces are detected, the selfie camera automatically recommends users to switch to ultra-wide shot mode to meet the needs of those multiple party selfies.  PHANTOM X is equipped with a macro lens of 50mm Golden Portrait to capture detailed portraits with a short focal length, comparable to professional portrait lenses. Users can also choose seven diversified portrait lighting effects without changing the photo background. Three professional portrait color schemes are available to choose from to accommodate different skin color types, in line with multi-regional aesthetics and the demands from consumers. With PHANTOM X’s Super Night Mode, night photography will never be a challenge again. Even in dark environments of less than 0.1 lux, PHANTOM X can bring more vivid details than the naked eye with the algorithm-enabled camera by utilizing AI segmentation and night protection. All the while, optimizing the purity of the picture, the focusing speed, and the color representation at night. PHANTOM X makes it easy for you to capture the glorious night city scenes with the Super Night View 3.0, and even allows you to take elegant portraits in the spectacular night view with the help of Super Night Portrait.  Extraordinary Inner Power PHANTOM X empowers users to become up to date mobile players with a large storage capacity, powerful battery, as well as an efficient UI and OS design. With 8G+256GB of storage, users can capture endless memorable pictures and videos. Also, you can always stay cool with the powerful 4700mAh battery. When fully charged, it can support 30 days standby battery life, 16-hour video streaming and 9-hour video meeting. With a 33W flash charge, 30 minutes of charge can pump up to 70% battery life and 60 minutes of charge will give 100%. What’s more, PHANTOM X is comprehensively upgraded in UI design, intelligent operation, and system performance, bringing a higher efficiency and fluency in use. Be among the cool and latest smartphone users with PHANTOM X, fully charged and up for any challenge.  Extraordinary Exclusivity of Enjoyment PHANTOM X also features an industry-leading AI voice assistant with a mastery of English and the Hausa language and can respond to your instructions even when you are offline. Activate Ella by calling “Hi Ella” whenever users need to make phone calls, set up alarms, play music, initiate driving mode and more, all without lifting a finger. In addition, for other language barriers, PHANTOM X features AI live transcribe function that can transcribe more than 70 languages, allowing you to communicate with more than 80% of the global population without difficulty. Realtime and accessible communication is tailored for interactive conversations with a far-reaching audience. For business documents, the one-button Document Photography correction detects erroneous data with smart precision, and extracts words from any type of images. Moreover, PHANTOM X provides a series of promising safety measures to protect user privacy. Functions like Peek Proof and App encryption hiding can prevent your information from being leaked. Even in the instance where users accidently lose their PHANTOM X, an anti-theft function alerts and remotely locks your device. Only you alone can unlock your smartphone, giving you confidence and guarantee in the security of your personal and sensitive information. The ultra-thin under screen fingerprint allows you to unlock PHANTOM X in less than 0.4s, giving you optimum unlocking speed without compromising on security.  Further Features of PHANTOM X: Full Pixel Dual-Core Focus + Laser Focus: Find focus in a flash with full pixel dual-core focus and laser focus. AI Portrait Restoration: Using integrated neural networks provides surety that every portrait is flawless. Film Mode: Edit your own cinematic films with your own hands, whether it be for business or pleasure. Video Portrait Mode: Blurs out cluttered backdrops and puts you sharply in focus, even when you’re on the move. 960fps Slow Motion: Every fleeting moment can feel like memories frozen in time. Most Used Office Software Built-in: Kick-off your day with most commonly used APPs. Floating Chatter Box: Receive pop-up message notifications as a bubble and chatter away with friends without interrupting your favorite videos. Smart One-button Phone Cloner: Transfer everything within your old phone to a new one quickly, efficiently, and hassle-free with a few simple clicks.