The Oyo State Police Command on Sunday said that some suspected kidnappers have been arrested. Police claimed that the suspects were arrested with the assistance of vigilantes and local hunters. Our correspondent recalls that a youth leader and two other people were shot on Saturday by some gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen. The youth leader who is known as Olori Odo died on Saturday as a result of the gunshots he sustained. DAILY POST recalls that suspected Fulani herdsmen, numbering about seven, allegedly killed a village youth leader at Akinkunmi village in Akinyele local government area of the State. Our correspondent gathered that Akinkunmi village is close to Kara market where cattle, rams and other livestock are being sold. DAILY POST gathered from residents that the Fulani herdsmen attempted to kidnap two people on Saturday. One of the victims escaped and ran to Akinkunmi village to seek help. Our correspondent learnt that Olori Odo and other youths bombarded the village in search for the kidnappers, but the kidnappers shot three people among whom were Olori Odo. Two other people, who sustained various degrees of injuries, are still receiving treatment at a health facility within the local government area, DAILY POST gathered. The state police command, while confirming the attempted abduction, noted that some suspects have been arrested. Public Relations Officer of the police command, Mr Adewale Osifeso, who confirmed the incident, however did not state the number of the arrested persons. He however insisted that investigations have commenced to arrest suspects linked to the foiled abduction. “An abduction was foiled by Command Operatives attached to Moniya Divisional Police Headquarters in collaboration with vigilantes and local hunters upon the strength of a distress call received at the early hours of Saturday 10/07/2021. “So far, arrests have been made while comprehensive investigations are ongoing to apprehend other culprits linked with the foiled abduction. “Meanwhile updates would be provided soonest, please,” he said.