A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Olumide Aderinokun, has revealed why Governor Dapo Abiodun would not want an opposition party to win the forthcoming local government elections in Ogun State. Aderinokun said the governor, in an attempt to control how local government funds are being spent, is allegedly using the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) to frustrate the PDP out of the July 24 polls. DAILY POST recalls that the PDP in Ogun recently accused OGSIEC of meddling in its affairs by recognising one Leke Shittu from the Buruji Kashamu faction as the authentic party executive. In his words, Aderinokun said the plan was to weaken the major opposition party and give the All Progressives Congress (APC) soft landing in the elections. In a chat with our correspondent in Abeokuta, the Owu Chief said “for the governor to be able to cover his tracks here, they are trying to do a selection. Even, they are causing ripples in the PDP, trying to make some APC members infiltrate the PDP. Killings: Buhari not doing enough – PDP chieftain, Aderinokun mulls fighting insecurity with ICT “OGSIEC itself is being biased. They know the stronger faction, but they are just trying to do what is not right. In fact, the OGSIEC Chairman knows and he admitted that this is the right thing, but he has to consult the ogas at the top. So, they are trying to cover their tracks, knowing that the local government money is not going to the right channel. “The only way they could do that is to choose their people. Even their primaries were selected. There were no primaries to elect their candidates,” he said. However, Aderinokun urged the public to go out and vote on the day of the election, saying “we know their plans.” “I will just beseech everybody to go and vote that day. We know their plans. We have people inside there too. As PDP members, we are ready, we have started our own campaign already. We have seen what happened in Oyo State and we are using it as a guide to what will happen in Ogun,” he explained. Aderinokun added that a governor would not want an opposition member as a local government chairman because such a chairman would demand that any money payable to his council be paid in full. Contrary to claims by the Abiodun administration that the local governments are being augmented, the PDP leader said there are some councils that can sustain themselves financially from their internally generated revenues and federal allocations. “The governor knows if any opposition party wins Abeokuta South for instance, there will be trouble. So, he has to use all his powers to put his own people there. It’s so obvious. That’s why we need local government autonomy,” Aderinokun submitted. DAILY POST reports that the Ogun State Government has since denied spending funds belonging to the local governments. Rather, the state government mentioned that it has spent about N2 billion to augment the local councils in the last six months. You’ve lost control over Nigeria – PDP chieftain, Aderinokun slams Buhari