Loyalists of a three-time governorship candidate in Ogun State, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka (GNI), have cried out that they were being marginalised by some groups within the Governor Dapo Abiodun’s faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC), DAILY POST reports. The loyalists, at an Extraordinary Meeting of The Believe Movement (TBM) on Sunday, said certain interests within the system were hellbent on depriving them of their today, while trying to jeopardise their future. This was contained in a communiqué signed by leaders of the TBM from the three senatorial districts of the state: Alhaji Toyin Awofeso, Mrs Funke Arigbabu (Ogun East); Elder Joju Fadairo, Hon. Dipo Akingbade (Ogun Central); Hon Rasak Oduntan and Chief Mrs Amosa Akintade (Ogun West). The group lamented that it has got to a stage where anybody who desires anything from the party or government must pledge loyalty to a particular camp before being considered. Kashamu loyalists dump PDP for APC in Ogun, say Amosun is their leader “As a group, despite our electoral strength and the competencies resident within us, what we find offending to our sensibilities is the attempt by certain interest within the system, to deprive us of our today and also jeopardize our tomorrow! This is basically about who determines who gets what within the party primarily and in government to a large extent. We must not promote a situation in the party today where anyone who desires opportunities within the party and government – must pledge loyalty to a particular group before you are worthy of consideration,” it was stated. While saying they have been observing the ugly scenario for long, the GNI followers explained that it became more pronounced with the forthcoming local government elections in Ogun State. They condemned the “conspiration” of against their aspirants, on the grounds that they do not belong to a certain group. “While this observation has been long coming, the recent exercise to pick candidates for the forthcoming local government elections further affirmed the need for a more sincere accommodation of all groups within the party. While we were not expecting slots to be so allocated to us, we expect a process that will be fair, equitable and meritorious. But in few areas where we even had aspirants – who emerged on merit, the system conspired against them, citing that they did not belong to a certain group,” it was stressed. In their pleas, TBM implored Gov Abiodun, “to show more fundamental interest in how the affairs of the party is being run.” They added that, “A party is a composition of individuals and different groups. It must be the interest of the leader to ensure that all stakeholders are given sense of belonging at all times and in all locations across the state. “We cannot afford our future to be endangered by a process that promotes the interest of a group over and above all others. We ask that urgent redress should be done before the congresses to elect new officers into the party are held. “The forthcoming congresses (Ward, Local Government and State) must be done to reflect the strength and capacity of all grouping within the party – as a minimum show of emancipation and desire to have a strong and united party as we prepare towards 2023,” Isiaka loyalists demanded. DAILY POST reports that Isiaka and his loyalists formally defected from the African Democratic Congress (ADC) on January 14, 2020 to the ruling APC. After the defection, some loyalists of Isiaka moved from his camp to pitch tents with a Lagos Senator, who DAILY POST learnt, had embarked on a spending spree to become the next Senator of Ogun West in 2023. However, loyal members of the Believe Movement on Sunday reinforced their “belief in the political and social philosophies of Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, (GNI) as a symbol of integrity and hope for our collective aspiration.” While applauding Gov Abiodun’s performance in Ogun, the group also saluted the leadership of the Chief Yemi Sanusi-led Caretaker Committee of the APC in the State. Ogun PDP: Kashamu, Adebutu factions reunite; vow to unseat APC in 2023