Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina has eulogized Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum. In an article entitled “Where did this Zulum emerged from?”, Adesina disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari admires the governor. Zulum, a Professor was formerly Rector of Ramat Polytechnic in Borno and was Commissioner for Reconstruction under ex-Governor Kashim Shettima. Adesina commended Shettima, currently the Senator for Borno Central, for discovering an achiever. He recalled that Buhari was in Maiduguri, Borno State, a fortnight ago to commission some projects already completed by the Zulum administration. Adesina said people of state are having a breath of fresh air in areas once overtaken by death and destruction caused by the Boko Haram insurgency. Muhammad Garba: Re: A warning to Governor Ganduje and those that think like him The aide added that it is very easy for Zulum to have done nothing in terms of development and simply cite terrorism as the reason for non-performance. “And he would have a good excuse, a smokescreen, an alibi. We are spending all the money to provide security for our people. They need to be alive first, before we can talk of development. And he would smile daily to the bank.” Adesina said despite the humongous resources being deployed to combat insecurity, great developmental strides are also being taken, because Zulum is not squirreling everything away. “It is said that while he was the Commissioner for Reconstruction, Zulum still lived in the family house. He hadn’t built a home for himself. No wonder he became Governor, and is serving with heart and might, despite the grave challenges. “President Buhari, who was a military governor of the old Borno State, had very kind words for Zulum when he visited. A man parsimonious with praises, the President said the host was forthright, resilient, and committed to development, despite the security challenges confronting the State. “The President said the Governor takes huge personal risks to promote peace and development, spending nights with the vulnerable and displaced. And I ask again: where did this man emerge from? It’s never done like that here. “The APC waxes stronger by the day. While the rival People’s Democratic Party (PDP) waxes weaker and weaker. A topic for another day, but with Governors like Zulum, I’ll put my money on the APC any day. “With public officers like Zulum, confidence is rekindled in Nigeria. Not everyone is a thief. Not everyone is a plunderer. Muhammadu Buhari, honest, straight as an arrow, is replicating himself in many people. Zulum seems to be one, and it makes one glad. “Kashim Shettima, the immediate past Governor took great strides. He has bequeathed to the State a man taking giant strides. That’s the way it should be. You don’t succeed without a worthy successor. “I know Governor Zulum. He has no airs around him. He’s just like the man next door. Simple, self-effacing. True is the saying that it’s the empty barrels that make the loudest noise.” Appreciate Buhari when he arrives – Zulum tells Borno residents ahead of President’s visit