Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chieftain, Emeka Kalu has insisted that the existing charter of equity, which guarantees rotation of power among Abia North, Abia South and Abia central senatorial districts of the state must be sustained in the interest of development and unity of the state. The Party chieftain said no section of the state would be allowed to scuttle the existing zoning arrangement for the 2023 governorship election in the state. In a statement made available to DAILY POST on Thursday, Kalu, a former Governorship Aspirant from Abia State, noted that indigenes of Abia North across the state are capable of winning elections for any political party it chooses to support. He said a power shift among the three senatorial districts has come to stay in the state for the interest of fairness and equity. The National Coordinator of PDP Coalition, decried the sectional intrigues by the people of Ukwa/Ngwa extraction of Abia state over the Governorship seat of the state in 2023 general election, warning that on no account should the existing charter of equity be truncated as doing so will not augur well to the development of the State. He appealed to political actors in the state to obey the current zoning arrangement by allowing Abia North produce the next governor. 2023: APC governors kick against zoning PDP Stalwart said, “zoning would help promote greater peace, unity and political stability in the state, why would a certain clan want to cause confusion with regards to the zoning arrangement”, he asked “It is wrong for a section of the state to come now and scuttle everything. Abia North should be supported in 2023. We have the numbers to deliver any party,” he said. Kalu criticized those questioning the numerical strength of Abia North Senatorial District to win elections, posited that Abia North has what it takes to emerge victorious in the 2023 Governorship poll. DAILY POST reported that the people of Ukwa/Ngwa extraction of Abia State had the people of Ukwa La Ngwa extraction of Abia State have resolved to retain the governorship seat of the state ahead of the 2023 general election. The people who spoke through their Elders’ Council as contained in a communique issued to newsmen in Umuahia had resolved that no son or daughter of the area should accept the position of deputy governorship from any party. They posited that the last two governors of the state, before the emergence of the current Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu in 2015 were from Old Bende, and each of them took an eight-year tenure, making it a total of 16 years by the area. The people of Ukwa/Ngwa Extraction further hinted that after the eight-year tenure of the incumbent governor Okezie Ikpeazu who happens to be from the old Aba zone, the zone would retain the governorship seat for another eight years, to make up for the 16 years tenure that was consumed by the old Bende bloc. The old Bende extraction consists, Abia North and part of Abia central senatorial districts of the State. The communique was signed by the leaders of the Elders Council, Dr. Max Nduaguibe and Chief Eric Acho Nwakanma. Zoning: PDP ex-Chairmen disown Enugu West meeting, declare loyalty to Gov. Ugwuanyi