The Osun State House of Assembly has released the list of nominees for the caretaker committee members for the local governments, local council development authorities and area offices in the State. The names of the caretaker committee members were read out by the Speaker of the Assembly, Timothy Owoeye on Thursday. They include the following: Odo Otin North: Iyiola Adebayo Adekeye – Chairman, Ajao Kehinde Vice-Chairman Adegoke Taiwo – Secretary. Ilesa East: Lanre Balogun – Chairman, Ajilore Johnson – Vice Chairman, Mrs. Kofo Omole – Secretary.
Atakumosa East: Mrs. Foluke Adekoya – Chairperson.
Ilesa North East: Oladipo Adeniyi – Chairman, Gbenga Omoniyi Vice-Chairman, Ishola Ariyo – Secretary
Atakumosa West : Thomas Jebutu – Chairman.
Ilesa West Central LCDA : Folarin Fafowora – Chairman, Mrs. Helen Agbeluyi – Vice Chairman, Jumoke Olaosebikan – Secretary.
Atakumosa West Central : Anthony Adeboye – Chairman, Mrs. Jumoke Bepo – Vice Chairperson, Oladapo Jegede – Secretary.
Ife East/Central LCDA Modakeke Akoraye: Lawal Mojeed Tunde -Chairman, Titi Atiku -Vice Chairman, Ikotun Lara – Secretary
Osogbo West : Olaniyan Demola- Chairman, Olaiya Rasak Ayoade – Vice Chairman, Atobatele Aminat- Secetary
Boripe: Oyebode Samson – Chairman, Ojolowo Akeem olaniyi- Vice Chairman, Balogun Rasheedat- Secretary
Boripe North: Adewale Gbenga-Chairman, Olagunju kehinde- Vice Chairman, Fabunmi Sunday – Secretary
Ifelodun: Okanlawon Hassan -Chairman, Olaniyan Olalere- vice chairman, Fatai Wale- Secretary
Irelowele North East LG: Adeboye opeyemi- Chairman, Alimi Bankole- Vice Chairman, Adeboye Olasumbo – Secretary
Isokan: Akinremi Maruf- Chairman, Agunbiade Kabiru – Vice Chairman, Abara Tajudeen- Secretary
Isokan South : Oyelami Oyetunji – Chairman, Lawal Korede- Vice Chairman, Olarinde Lukman- Secretary
Ayedire LG: Adigun Omotayo – Chairman, Isiak Ojo – Vice Chairman, Oyayeye Sunday Ajibade Secretary
Ayedire South: Idowu Femi – Chairman, Adigun Lere – Vice Chairman, Isiaka Suliaman – Secretary
Iwo: Ishola Adeniyi – Chairman, Akinlawon Tunde – Vice Chairman, Gbadebo Rahman – Secretary
Iwo East: Rahman Lawal Abiola – Chairman, Adesoji Tijani – Vice Chairman, Adigun Wasiu – Secretary
Iwo West: Babatunde Tajudeen Ajani – Chairman, Adeniyi Olagunju Yemi – Vice Chairman, Salahu Saani – Secretary
Olaoluwa: Oyediran Asimiyu – Chairman, Badiru Nasiru – Vice Chairman, Sodiq Jelili – Secretary
Olaoluwa South East: Olaifa Sunday – Chairman, Oyetunde Qazeem – Vice Chairman, Akindele Olawunmi – Secretary
Ede East: Taofeek Rafiu – Chairman
Ede North: Adeyemi Sesan – Chairman, Olanrewaju Qadri Sulaiman – Vice Chairman
Ejigbo South : Yusuff Rasheed: Chairman, Bakare Taofeek: Vice Chairman, Oyeniran Sikiru: Secretary
Ejigbo West: Chairman – Step Down, Oladeji Abiodun- Vice Chairman, Olojede Ojebode- Secretary
Ila: Babatunde Olumide- Chairman, Atolagbe Muhammed- Vice Chairman, Olagunju Olajide- Secretary
Ila Central : Ademola Kolawole- Chairman, Anifowoshe tajudeen-Secretary, Ibitoye Olushola – Secretary Speaker Owoeye, however, stepped down names of some nominees. Among those stepped down were Chairmen for Ejigbo West local council development authority and Oriade local government and Vice Chairmen for Ife Central local government and Egbedore area office.