Singer, David Adeleke, also known as Davido on Wednesday penned a moving tribute to his manager Habeeb Uthman, AKA Obama DMW, saying he was weak from the tragedy. DAILY POST had reported that Obama DMW died of suspected heart failure on Tuesday after he complained of severe pains. Obama drove himself to the hospital for a medical check-up and died during the tests. Writing on his Twitter page days after Segun’s burial, Davido who paid a tribute to Obama, fondly called ‘44 said things were different without him. He, however, promised to help Obama’s son finish what his dad wanted to do for him. “All my life it’s been “David you’re strong, David you’re strong”. 44 I won’t lie to you, this time around, this one WEAK ME!! I miss you so much 44. “You became so peaceful. You had peace and purpose, a true generational influence. I cannot even begin to count the amount of people you helped, artistes you brought to me, people you brought together in nothing but love and brotherhood. Actors, artists, influencers all. God! “44 I swear you will never be forgotten. Up until now I cannot believe this is real, I don’t even know what I’m writing, I’m just writing. I’m just confused. “This has been such a haunting week for all of us. All of us, me, his family, his son, his daughter, his brothers, his friends, a whole brotherhood; God give us all the strength. This isn’t even about me, it’s about all of us, and all the amazing plans and vision you had. “It is hard getting by without you, my backbone is truly gone but I won’t stop making you proud. I promise to continue to take this thing we started together, to the ends of the earth. I promise to continue dominating the world. “And to Malik, even though you are taller than me, you are basically my son. Doing so well in school, passing with flying colours. I have to be strong for you, and you have to be strong for the family, your mom. “Everything 44 wanted to do for you, we will finish it together.” “44 MY FRIEND. May God accept you to His kingdom. I Love You.”