A Judicial Panel of Inquiry set up by Oyo State government on Police Brutality and other related matters, had concluded its public sittings on 163 cases. DAILY POST recalls that the state government had earlier set up the panel due to protests that took place in October last year. The panel was set up in November last year in order to hear views of victims of police brutality. The protests, christened End SARS protests were staged by youths and other angry Nigerians against police brutality. The panel on Tuesday announced that it has had concluded its pubic sittings. EndSARS: Oyo judicial panel postpones sitting over death of Perm Sec, journalist
Chairman of the panel, Justice Bolajoko Adeniji (rtd) who spoke on Tuesday in Ibadan, said that the panel’s report will be submitted to the relevant authority in due course. Adeniji, while speaking further, appreciated the governor of the state for appointing men and women of integrity, probity and honest disposition into the panel. “It should be recalled that there were protests nationwide against Police brutality tagged #EndSARS sometime in October 2020. “The youths saw the protest as a means of expressing their bitter experiences at the hands of the Nigerian Police Force. The #EndSARS protesters presented what was termed 5 for 5 demands to the Federal Government of Nigeria. “Consequent upon the above, the Federal Government directed that all state governments should set up a judicial panel of inquiry to look into petitions submitted by alleged victims of police brutality, victimisation and unlawful killings in the various states. “The panel was inaugurated on Tuesday 10th of November, 2020 to receive and investigate police brutality on the latest extrajudicial killings; to evaluate evidence presented or/and other surrounding circumstances and draw conclusions as to the validity of the complaints; recommend compensation and other remedial measures where appropriate. “The panel’s inaugural meeting was held on Wednesday 22nd of November, 2020 at the conference room of the Ministry of Justice. The purpose of this meeting was to set out the modus operandi of the panel and all other relevant logistics. Other and further meetings were also held on 23rd of December, 2020; 11th of January, 2021 and 19th of January, 2021 respectively at the same venue. “The first sitting of the panel came up on 26th of January, 2021 at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat, Ibadan, having received 163 petitions. The petitions have been completed as of today, Tuesday 13th July, 2021 to the glory of God.”