A sociopolitical organization, the Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), has expressed concern on the prevailing happenings in Zamfara State following the alleged undemocratic display of Governor Bello Matawalle and security agents. The coalition berated Governor Matawalle and security operatives who have been accused of intimidating and harassing the sitting Deputy Governor of the state, Barrister Aliyu Gusau. The PDPCO warned that the wanton harassment and intimidation of Gusau by the hired security agents will not stop the Peoples Democratic Party from reclaiming her mandate from Governor Mattawalle, who voluntarily decamped to APC in defiance to legal implications of such deed in the eyes of the law. In a release signed by its the National Coordinator, Chief Emeka Kalu, and made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday, the coalition frowned at the activities of Matawalle and posited that the the Zamfara helmsman and cohorts should be properly guided to work in line with the rules of engagement and not to allow desperation and high handedness to drag them into partisan politics they they swore not to be part of. It queried, “How can the police display attitudes to cow the deputy governor from performing his statutory assigned functions? Let the police be informed that they are mandated to protect the life and rights of the deputy Governor knowing full well that our party has gone to court to reclaim her mandate from Mattawale. Continuing, the group added, “It is time our security operatives should learn that defence of the tenets of the constitution is their chief responsibility not to sentimentally work in favour of a given party or set of persons. This character effrontery truncates viable democracy and sets bad examples for a nation, especially Nigeria that is currently going through a deluge of frailties and political decadence”. The PDPCO thanked the people of Zamfara for keeping faith with the Peoples Democratic Party, urging them to remain calm as their mandate cannot be taken to the glory of another party. The sociopolitical body further made it clear that, “PDP under this Coalition and vanguard movement and the entire national leadership of the party are very much set and prepared to defend her mandate, also defend you with the last drop of engagement within the confines of the law to ensure justice is done and seen to have been done”. DAILY POST reported that Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, had two weeks ago dumped the PDP for the governing APC which prompted the former led by Gusau to restrategise to reclaim her mandates. Gusau had ignored defecting alongside his principal, reiterating his loyalty to the PDP.