A 200-level student of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, in Ondo State, AAUA, Feranmi Omowumi Fasunle has committed suicide. The deceased, a student of Political Science in the institution was said to have drunk an insecticide popularly known as sniper on Wednesday night in her room before she died on Thursday. Though actual reasons for her actions were yet to be ascertained as of the time of filing this report, there were speculations within the university community that her suicide may not be unconnected with relationship issues. A source in the school said “She took the deadly sniper with garri. It was when she was writhing in pain that people got to know. “Till now, no one knows the motive behind her action” The source added that she was rushed to the institution’s health center before she was moved to the State Specialist Hospital, Ikare and subsequently referred immediately to the Federal Medical Centre, FMC. She died at the Federal Medical Centre, FMC before arrangements were concluded for her transfer to ABUAD Teaching Hospital in Ekiti State. Confirming the incident, the management of AAUA described her death as unfortunate, disclosing that there was an indication that the Omowunmi committed suicide because of a relationship issue. The university’s spokesperson, Mr Victor Akinpelumi said “It is true that she committed suicide. We have not been officially briefed but the only details we have is that she took Sniper and she was later rushed to the state health centre and from there she was referred to the FMC in Owo. “The bad incident happened on Wednesday and we have not carried out our findings to ascertain if she committed suicide over relationship issues. “But from what we gathered from the medical officers in Owo, she had no boyfriend. “The doctor who spoke with me said those who brought her said they were close to her and that she was not involved in any relationship. So why she did that to herself is what we are yet to know. “We will further react if we later know why she took that decision to take her own life.”