Barely few hours to Eid-El-Ftr Sallah celebrations, residents of Damaturu, the Yobe state capital have lamented over hike in the prices of chickens. Chickens are among major ingredients needed in the festive period where special meals are prepared in order to celebrate the end of a month-long Ramadan fasting by Muslim faithful. A market survey conducted by DAILY POST in the metropolis, revealed that the prices of chickens vary depending on size, but are a bit higher when compared to that of last year. A Damaturu resident, Adamu Audu, who managed to buy two chickens at the cost N2,200 each, lamented over the price, saying that last year he bought chickens of same size at the coast of N1,500 per one. “The 2021 Sallah celebration comes at the middle of the month and your know what that means”, Audu politely said. Another resident, Mohammed Yahaya, also said that he has no any other option than to scale down his list of demands and therefore bought three chickens for his families. “We must adapt to every situation we find ourselves. This year’s chicken price is higher than we expected. But we have to thank God for everything”, he said. Responding, a poultry dealer from Jos in Plateau state, Abubakar Rabiu, said high cost of feeds, as well as other logistics, are responsible for the increase the prices of chickens this year. “We also bought the chickens at high cost and you do not expect us to sell them below the amount we bought them from poultry farms in Jos”, he said. According to him, the high cost of feeds this year has forced many farmers out of poultry business in Plateau State. A chickens vendor, Sa’id Salisu Bazam also told DAILY POST that, the country’s present economic realities have further compounded the situation, hence limiting the ability of most people to buy more chickens for their families. Checks by DAILY POST also showed that, despite increase in the prices of some essential commodities, people in the state were making last-minute purchases of food and non-food items that would be needed for making special delicacies on Sallah day.