Despite the relative peace being enjoyed in Plateau State, 17 people were killed over the weekend in Dong village of Jos North, Kwi village in Riyom, and Bassa LGAs of Plateau State by yet to be identified gunmen. Two people were killed on Friday night at Rikwe-Rishe Kpatenvie village of Kpachudu Community, in Miango District of Bassa LGA of the State. The killing in Bassa LGA was confirmed by the General Secretary of Irigwe Development Association, Mr. Danjuma Dickson Auta, describing the incident as “unfortunate and barbaric”. It was gathered that most of the victims in the three incidents were women and children. DAILY POST also gathered from a resident of Dong village that late on Sunday night, unknown gunmen attacked and killed an entire family of six, including a cleaner, while one other person was killed separately. Another source confirmed to DAILY POST that, on the same night unknown gunmen invaded Kwi village in Riyom Local Government Area of the State at about 11pm and also killed another family of seven. Confirming the incident, the member representing Riyom Constituency in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Dantong, said the attack took place while the villagers were asleep. Dantong, who was on his way to the village, condemned the attack, describing it as “barbaric”. The Lawmaker expressed sadness that his constituents were persistently being killed by unknown gunmen, adding that Riyom had been suffering attacks since 2001. While confirming the incident at Dong village, the Spokesman of the Command, ASP Gabriel Ogaba, said, “On Sunday 23/05/2021 at about 20:00 hours, the Command received a distress call that yet to be identified gunmen came out suddenly from a nearby bush, invaded Dong Village, of Jos North LGA and killed seven persons. According to him, “A combined team of policemen, STF, vigilante operatives led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Department of Operation, raced swiftly to the scene, but the hoodlums had already fled back into the bush. He however said, investigation is ongoing, and frantic efforts are on to arrest the fleeing suspects. The Spokesman further said security has been beefed up in that area to prevent escalation of violence. Boko Haram planning to attack Abuja, Jos – Police 