A traditional ruler in Esuk Atu village in Calabar Municipal Council of Cross River State, Etubom Nto Okon Etim has regained his freedom from his alleged kidnappers. DAILY POST gathered that the elderly traditional ruler who was abducted on April 26 regained his freedom on Friday after paying a ransom of N700, 000. The suspected kidnappers had earlier demanded N5 million from the victim and his family but after a long negotiation, a source hinted to our reporter that both parties settled for N700, 000. In a chat with DAILY POST, Etubom Nto Okon Etim expressed disappointment at his people when the kidnappers came, “Though they shot sporadically, destroyed my door and gained access to my room nobody came to my rescue. “I struggled with the first two that came in and almost empowered them but they signalled two other members for re-enforcement yet my people did nothing, even when I shouted for help. “In the process, they inflicted injuries on me, using matched to cut my head, blood covered my face still it was not easy for them “They somehow succeeded when the commander gave an order that my children be killed if I refuse to follow them and at this stage, I followed them. Blood was everywhere,” he stated. The Etubom said he was taken to the river and blindfolded and had to cross the creeks, explaining that life there was different. “The kidnappers have perfect administration, even though I was blindfolded, I heard them very well. they ran shift duties and have units by units where people are taking, there are morning, afternoon and night shifts. They also moved victims from one unit to another. “Others who from time to time go out to bring in victims are also there. They have strong security there even though they do have misunderstanding from time to time. “Sometimes, they fight among themselves but I thank God that I was released without further injuries. They have nurses that treat wounds” he narrated. On the day of his release, the traditional ruler said, “They drove me to the shore, collected the money and moved back with ease and called on security operatives to extend their operations to the area. Kidnappers abduct 58-year-old traditional ruler in Cross River 