The Chairman of the Kaduna State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. John Joseph Hayab, has called on the leadership of the country to always tell Nigerians the truth of what is happening for constructive advice on the way forward. He lamented that Nigerians are usually left in the dark thereby making a lot of negative things that take the country backward to happen. Speaking in an intercessory prayer for insecurity and restoration of peace in Kaduna and Nigeria organized by the association, Rev. Hayab lamented that there is dishonesty on the part of the leadership that does not want to govern with the fear of God. “Our leaders should be honest with us, don’t govern Nigerians with lies, tell Nigerians the truth so that where necessary, we can in our little understanding give our honest contributions for the way forward for our beloved country,” he said. He lamented that the leaders do not have a listening ear to the complaints of those being governed, saying, “As a Church, the Bible made us understand that the heart of a king is in the hand of God, hence we called on all Christians in the state to come together and cry unto the Lord against insecurity and other social vices in the state and the country for total restoration.” Rev. Hayab observed that when the state chapter of CAN was crying against the rate of kidnapping and other social vices in the state, some people thought they were blowing ember of religion. According to him, “When we were crying and saying kidnapping and other social vices was happening in the state, they said we were blowing the ember of religion and everything we said is happening today in Kaduna state. We told Nigerians that Kaduna people are being governed by falsehood, lies and propaganda and they said we were telling lies but today everybody is seeing the truth.” He added, “During the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, protest, one of the saddest thing that happened is our government came out and lied that nurses took away oxygen from a young patient when it never happened just to blackmail its staff, it is bad but that is the way we have been governed in the state.” The state chairman of CAN expressed delight with the presence of some Moslems who came to be part of the intercessory prayer, stressing that both Christians and Muslims should come together and pray for the overall peace and unity of the citizens of the state for any enemy that impedes the progress of the state to be flushed out. He further explained that the intercessory prayer was part of activities to thank God for the answered prayers towards the released of the remaining 27 abducted students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna, saying some of the released students were present for a thanksgiving to the Almighty for setting them free and pray for their future. Speaking on those who are still being held by kidnappers, Rev. Hayab stated that the Church is still praying to God to touch the hearts of the abductors to release the victims, pointing out that, “We understand the feelings of the parents and we are praying earnestly to God to please intervene and grant the victims a way out of the condition they found themselves.” Nigerian political system does not allow transparent elections – CAN Chairman 