A former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State and Chairman of The Osun Progressives (TOP), a caucus within the party, Elder Moses Adelowo Adebiyi, has disclosed that majority of the politicians supporting the current state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, are seeking political appointments into the yet to be constituted local government caretaker committees and boards of state controlled parastatals. He also disclosed that the emergence of TOP, a caucus within the ranks of the APC in the state, is in line with Article 12 (A) of the party constitution with the aim of addressing the inefficiencies in the management of the party in the state and to create a level playing field for all members to elect credible representatives in the forthcoming congress in June. Adebiyi, who made this known on a radio current affairs programme monitored by DAILY POST on Wednesday in Osogbo, added that the aims and objectives of TOP is in line with Article 20(1A) of the constitution of the APC which is to promote equity, fairness, transparency and accountability within the party. He maintained that The Osun Progressives is a caucus within the party in Osun and not a group and as such it is focused on ensuring that the forthcoming party congress in June was a success in order to avoid the repetition of the woeful performance of the party in the 2018 Gubernatorial Election in the state. In his words, “APC members in the state will determine the next executives during the congress. TOP is all about the party and the party congress.” On the perceived misunderstanding between Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, the former Osun APC Chairman revealed that both were of different personalities. He added that while one is an introvert, the other is an extrovert and since both were from the same source, they will know how to reconcile themselves. On his suspension by the Engr. Sola Akinwumi led Osun APC Igbimo Agba (Elders Council), the TOP Chairman, who stated that he was not given a fair hearing, absolved himself of any fault. In his reaction, the Acting Secretary of the APC Igbimo Agba, Oluremi Akintola Omolaoye, countered that the formation of groups within the party was an aberration. In his words, “The existence of groups like Oranmiyan, Ileri Oluwa and The Osun Progressives is an aberration to the APC in Osun.” Insecurity: APC caucus replies PDP as Reps shun meeting 