The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Nigeria Police Command in cross river State of giving the All Progressives Congress (APC) cover to take over the PDP secretariat, seizing her property, furniture and others. Addressing a press conference in Calabar on Wednesday, the Chairman of Caretaker committee, Bar Effiok Cobham regretted the action and behavior of the police in the state. He said on 22nd May, 2021, two days after defecting from our party, Governor Ayade, now a full-fledged APC member, invaded the state secretariat of PDP at 42A Murtala Mohamed Highway, Calabar, with thugs under the cover of armed men of the Nigerian Police force, Cross River Command. “Governor Ayade forcefully took over the secretariat and on his instructions the building has now been repainted in the colours of the APC. We understand that the building now serves as one of the several state secretariats of the APC in Calabar. The building currently stands, under guard by the police, painted in APC colours, flying the disregard for law ‘and order. APC flags, as monumental signpost of impunity, political rascality and absolute. “We had earlier raised the alarm that vital documents, sensitive party membership
registers and other facilities are being carted away or destroyed. That situation has not abated,” he explained. The Caretaker committee chairman said, “This building has served as the state secretariat of PDP for over 22 years; it was the secretariat of the PDP even before Governor Ayade joined PDP. The current rent for the property has been paid and the tenancy of PDP subsists. “The rent receipts issued to our party, in the name of PDP, are available in proof. The Lessor who rented the property to the PDP, has issued a statement to the effect that PDP is the lawful tenant, and there is no arrangement to have APC as
tenant on the property. “Clearly the invasion and occupation of the building is immature politics, unnecessary provocation and outrightly illegal. “In an official statement from his Chlef Press Secretary, Governor Ayade defended his invasion of the PDP secretariat on the ground that he paid the rent for the current year. We do not know who Governor Ayade gave money to. He can ask for his refund because PDP paid the rents and we have the rent receipts to show. Asked Governor Ayade to show his own proof of payment. “Neither Governor Avade nor the APC are privy to the tenancy agreement between the PDP and the lessor,” PDP pointed out. The Police command in a press release had said that it deployed men and officers to maintain peace and order, noting that the property in question was a private one. Nigeria would prevail over challenges, new nation is being born – VP Osinbajo 