The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus of the National Assembly on Wednesday reacted to the Peoples Democratic Party’s allegation that ‘insecurity under the APC-led government was worsening by the day. The APC caucus had planned to hold a joint meeting of Senators and Rep members on its platform, however only a few members turned up with many absent for unknown reasons, But speaking at a press conference after the meeting attended by a few, the APC senators maintained that their PDP counterparts were overheating the polity. The caucus decision which was read by the Senate leader, Yahaya Abubakar Abdullahi, rejected in totality, the opposition’s submission on Tuesday that President Muhammadu Buhari was not in charge, hence, there was a high level of insecurity. He said: “We in the APC caucus totally reject the many incorrect statements contained in the said press release. “Indeed, we are quite aware of the role of the opposition in any democracy. “However, the statement by the PDP caucus has gone too far given the good working relationship in the 9th Assembly and especially with the Minority Caucus. “In any democracy, the rights to present criticisms and concerns on the state of the nation’s affairs are unassailable. “While we respect such rights; which comes with obligation and responsibility, we are concerned that the statement issued by the Minority Caucus is capable of overheating an already charged polity in which men of good conscience and patriotism are expected to act as leaders and statesmen. “While we acknowledge the natural disposition of playing politics, we are worried and disturbed that our colleagues are playing with lives. The caucus faulted the opposition for not recalling how issues of security were robustly discussed in the upper and lower legislative Chambers with resolutions passed, noting that security shouldn’t be politicised. “The unfortunate state of insecurity; for which the Senate has continuously debated and issued resolutions to support the actions of the executive under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari in the overriding interest of the public, is too delicate to play with. “In all our deliberations, the entire Senate including the minority had discussed exhaustively in a very robust, transparent and patriotic flavor to arrive at our concrete resolutions. “A case in point is the current invitation to engage the service chiefs. “Furthermore, we take exception to the unfortunate charge that our President has not been seen. “This is false and cheap politics. Mr. President and service chiefs are meticulously busy every day and every night in deliberations with a view to addressing the security challenges across the entire country. Similarly, Mr. President had always made statements to Nigerians on all major security incidences and assuring Nigerians and indeed the international community that he would continue to do his best in making sure that the security challenges are tackled head-on. “We want to assure Nigerians that Mr. President is in charge of the government and is discharging his duties conscientiously and patriotically. They maintained that the PDP government in the past didn’t invest in security, a situation that brought about the present level of insecurity. “It is a well-known fact that the Federal Government under the PDP refused to invest in the security infrastructure of the country while Mr. President under the APC led Government had massively invested in this regard more than any past governments and we are confident that the nation will surmount its current security challenges. Meanwhile, efforts to find out why Rep members were absent from the caucus meeting met a stiff wall as Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu declined to comment and did not allow a response from his leader.