Akinloye Bankole, the Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ogun State Chapter, has described the government of Governor Dapo Abiodun as lame and lazy in combating the menace of insecurity in the state. He also said the government had failed in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and properties, adding that kidnapping has become a regular occurrence in the State. Bankole said this in an interview with DAILY POST. Residents of the State have expressed worry at the spate of insecurity issues such as kidnapping, killings, cultism and others. Recently, a policeman was shot dead by kidnappers, who also abducted another officer and three others at Ibara Orile area of the state. This happened within the period a driver and his passengers were kidnapped along Imeko road. Millions of Naira were said to have exchanged hands before the release of the abductees, who were peasant traders going about their activities. In late April, a hotelier, Kehinde Ibidunni and his wife, Elizabeth, were killed by suspected assassins at their Atan-Ota residence. Bankole said the “deafening silence” of the Abiodun government had emboldened the kidnappers, thereby turning it into a lucrative business in the state. “It is so unfortunate that we find ourselves in this hopeless situation in terms of security of lives and properties. The case of kidnapping has become a daily routine within our space in the past couple of weeks. And very unfortunately too, we have a government that is so helpless, that is hopeless, that is so lame and lazy in combating the menace of insecurity. “Kidnapping has become a lucrative business in Ogun because of the deafening silence of the Abiodun government. The government is so helpless. “In fact, the silence of the governor continues to confirm that the governor wants to be seen as a ‘loyal boy’, perhaps to the presidency that is also as moribund. “The situation in Ogun State is so pathetic. The governor’s silence has emboldened these men of the underworld to turn the whole thing into a lucrative business,” he said. In his advice, the PDP spokesperson charged Abiodun to involve local vigilantes, traditional rulers and other community leaders in the security of the state. He also urged the governor to equip security agents and give them the necessary morale booster to rid the state of criminals. “As a party, we want to charge the government to engage the local vigilantes. He should equip the security operatives and give them necessary incentives to boost their morale. He should work with traditional rulers and local communities. The issue of security should be community-based. “Let me add this, the primary function of any government is the security of lives and properties. No matter the number of roads, hospitals or schools you provide, people have to be alive to make use of those facilities. On insecurity, the government of Ogun State has thoroughly failed,” he said. We’ll win all local govts, Ogun not safe with APC – PDP 