President Muhammadu Buhari, Tuesday joined the people of Taraba State in their moment of grief as they mourn Hajiya Aisha Jummai Alhassan, former Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, saying that her death leaves a huge void in Nigerian politics. Represented by a delegation led by Engineer Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of State, Works and Housing, President Buhari told her bereaved father, Alh Abubakar Ibrahim OON, Sarkin Ayyukan Muri, the Emir of Muri, Alhaji Abbas Tafida and the Taraba State Governor, Architect Darius Ishaku that the nation has lost a woman leader. “We lost a great leader with an indomitable spirit with people, especially the womenfolk at her heart. The late Aisha Alhassan was strong, bold and people-oriented,” said the President. He prayed to Allah to repose her soul. A brother of the deceased and former Senator, Abdulaziz Ibrahim who spoke on behalf of the family thanked the President for making their sister a minister and assured them that they will continue to be with him. The Emir on his part described death as inevitable. He prayed for the deceased and thanked the President for his support to the people of the state. He urged him to remain calm and steadfast and act decisively to deal with the enemies of the state who he blamed for the security challenges facing the nation. Governor Ishaku described the late Minister as one of the closest persons to him: “Once she is committed to something, she remains consistent. She was a great mobilizer. She served well as minister and did not tell lies.” The Governor expressed the appreciation of his administration to the President for the confidence he has in him. “We appreciate Mr. President. He cares about us,” said the Governor and expressed his happiness that he did not disappoint the President by bringing back peace to the Mambilla plateau. “Mambilla is peaceful today,” he said, hoping that the solidarity and friendship between the state and the centre will continue. Other members of the delegation were Barrister Mohammed Hassan Abdullahi, Minister of State, Science and Technology and the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu. Buhari mourns Mama Taraba 