Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, has called on the Federal Government to invite the renowned Islamic cleric, Ahmad Abubakar Gumi for questioning over his alleged tie with bandits and other criminal elements. The human rights lawyer alleged that the controversial cleric must have been benefiting from ransoms paid to the abductors (bandits) for the release of their captives. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Fani-Kayode while reacting to a confession by a parent of one of the abducted Kaduna student said, Gumi should be interrogated over his activities with the criminals. According to him, a TV station quoted a mother of the student saying, “They took us to Gumi’s house. He directed us to Ahmad who invited a Fulani from Kaduna. We contributed N800,000 for him. He told us that it was just for transport. I cried & pleaded with him, saying I’m a widow. He said it wasn’t his concern.” Kayode warned that the FG’s failure to investigate Ahmad Gumi would reveal its stance on the fight against terrorism in the country. “I hereby call on the FG to invite & interrogate Ahmad Gumi. Assuming this lady’s testimony is true, it provides a clear evidence of him being an accessory and accomplice to terrorism, abduction, kidnapping and murder. He is a BAG man, FRONT and PR officer for the terrorists that have plagued our land & I do not doubt that he benefits from the ransoms that are being paid. If these were not the case, he would not spend his entire life attempting to defend, justify, rationalise & explain their barbaric, homicidal, savage & beastly ways. “These people have so much blood on their hands, yet Gumi still holds himself out as their advocate & best friend. He is nothing but an extortionist who thrives on the misery and blood of those that have been murdered and kidnapped. First, it was Pantami and now this! “How much longer do the people of Nigeria have to put up with evil & wicked men like this? Enough is enough! If no one else will say it I WILL. Gumi must be brought to justice & so must every single one of his foreign Fulani terrorist friends & all those within & outside. “Government that have links with ISIS, Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, the Fulani terrorists, the Taliban, ISWA, Al Shabab & any other evil terrorist organisation which seeks to kill and Islamise our people and conquer and occupy our territory and nation. “Nigerians are being murdered every day & our soldiers are on the war front being slaughtered by these barbarians & animals yet some that are highly placed in society are still supporting them? This is nothing but wickedness. This is evil. This is wrong. This is unacceptable. “If the FG refuses to act against Gumi it will raise questions about their commitment to fighting terror & stopping the terrorists. Every day people are being killed & kidnapped. This madness has to stop & those behind it and that covertly support it must be brought to justice”.