Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode has said Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, does not speak for most Yoruba people. Fani-Kayode said Tinubu would be “flushed down the toilet” when a referendum is done to determine Oduduwa nation. The former minister stated this while condemning the meeting of APC leaders in South West on Sunday. Bola Tinubu, Bisi Akande, Olusegun Osoba and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, were among those who called for restructuring of the country and the creation of state police. At the meeting, which was held in Lagos State, Tinubu and the APC leaders backed the ban on open grazing by Southern governors. However, Fani-Kayode said the meeting was not in the interest of the Southwest but to push for APC’s agenda. In a series of tweets, the former minister insisted that the likes of Tinubu would be “thrown into dustbin of history.” He wrote: “One of the lessons that Bola Tinubu and those with him will soon learn is that it is a very dangerous thing and an exercise in futility to move against a moving train.Those that met in Lagos yesterday only represented their own narrow mindset and band of thinking and their political party. “They didn’t represent the position of the Yoruba people.There are 70 million Yorubas in the world today and Tinubu does not speak for or lead most of them. “He only leads part of the APC in parts of the SW and those that are with him are mainly members of the fading ruling elite. “If there is a referendum on self-determination in the SW tomorrow these characters would be flushed down the toilet & thrown into the dustbin of history. “The way to counter those that want to exercise their right of self-determination and leave Nigeria is not to act as if they do not exist, impose your will on them, dismiss them with contempt and attempt to publicly rubbish & dismiss their legitimate concerns and aspirations but instead to try and understand where they are coming from, assuage their fears and anxieties, negotiate with them & give them guarantees about their place & role in a new & restructured Nigeria. “Outside of that it is only a question of time before they break away and determine their own future. Tinubu does not control the streets of the SW: the Yoruba nationalists and separatists do. “Those that met in Lagos only represent a tiny group of those in the Southwest. They cow tow to, beg and lobby the separatists behind closed doors and they condemn and disown them before the world. Such intellectual dishonesty, doublespeak and cowardice is reprehensible.” Attahiru’s death: Lot of change coming, Nigerians pray hard – Fani-Kayode 