The Office of the Accountant General of the Federal has revealed that £4.2m looted by former Governor, James Ibori which was recently repatriated from the United Kingdom is still being awaited. DAILY POST had reported that the Federal Government on Tuesday said that the £4.2m looted by former Governor, James Ibori recently repatriated from the United Kingdom has been returned to Delta State. Accountant-General of the Federation, Mr. Ahmed Idris, made the claim when he was grilled by the Reps committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020. However, the Delta State Government in a statement released on Wednesday said it had not received any 4.2 million pounds returned by the United Kingdom from the Federal Government. The Chief Press Secretary to the Delta State Governor, Olisa Ifejika also said the state was not in contact with the Federal Government, especially the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, on the issue. Following the development, Henshaw Ogubike, OAGF Director (Information, Press and Public Relations) in a statement clarified that the money is still being awaited, after which the issues around it will be resolved before further action is taken. According to the statement, no money has been returned to Delta State. “The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) wishes to put the records straight regarding the widely circulated media report on the £4.2m Ibori Loot. “The issue of the £4.2m Ibori Loot has not been properly resolved. The money is still being awaited, after which the issues around it will be resolved before further action is taken. For now, no money has been returned to Delta State. “This explanation is without prejudice to the proceedings at the public hearing that took place yesterday during which the AGF was only making general comments about recoveries relating to State Governments. “This is the true position as regards the £4.2m Ibori Loot,” the statement said. FG returns £4.2m Ibori loot to Delta 