The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA has said it was not surprised hearing the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Alhaji Abubakar Malami speaking against ranching as adopted by the Southern Governors. DAILY POST has reported that the Southern Nigerian Governors recently banned open grazing in the region to curb the incessant crisis between farmers and Fulani herders. But Malami, while speaking on Channels Television on Wednesday, faulted the decision of the governors, saying it does not align with the provisions of the constitution. Reacting, HURIWA in a statement on Thursday, said it was not shocked that “a Fulani born lawyer is supporting the armed herdsmen. According to HURIWA: “We are not in any way shocked that the Federal Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami, a Fulani born lawyer and politician, has attacked Southern governors for taking practical steps to checkmate the rampant invasions of farms in the South by armed Fulani herdsmen. It does appear that a federal Attorney General does not understand the laws in such a way that he is mixing up animal rights and human rights. “The minister of justice of President Muhammadu Buhari is unaware that the fundamental human rights provisions enshrined in the Nigerian Constitution are not animal rights which is why they are classified as HUMAN and not ANIMAL RIGHTS”. Speaking on a claim by Malami that the ban on open grazing was tantamount to the ban in the sale of vehicle share parts in the North, HURIWA said they are not comparable. “These two items are incomparable because whilst one is sold in an organised shopping mall by traders who pay rents and taxes to state government, cows that are openly grazed violently invade farmlands and have often caused destructions to farms”. “That the justice minister of Nigeria now speaks for armed Fulani herdsmen is an unmitigated scandal but not very strange to us because of our personal experience in a written exchange with the Federal Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami recently.” Prohibiting open grazing in the South is like northern Governors banning spare parts – Malami 