There seems to be no end in sight to the ongoing killings and destruction of property between herders and farmers in Taraba State, as separate attacks which have led to several deaths and destruction of property have again occurred in both Bali and Gassol councils. As at the time of filing this report, no fewer than twelve dead bodies were said to have been recovered from the scenes of the two separate attacks. The separate attacks, which occurred in Sabon-Gida village of Gassol Council and Pangari village of Bali, were said to have been necessitated by the herders. A source told DAILY POST that the herders stormed the communities at night when the residents were deep asleep. Some persons who claimed to have narrowly escaped the scenes, also told our correspondent that apart from the killings and injuries inflicted on residents of the communities, massive destructions of valuables also took place. Speaking with DAILY POST, leader of one of the affected communities, confirmed that “as I am talking with you now, we have so far recovered twelve dead bodies in a nearby bush in Sabon-Gida village of Gassol council.” While two persons were as well confirmed to have been killed by the suspected herdsmen in Pangari community of Bali council, several other persons were as well said to have been injured in the said Bali council. Confirming the incident which he said had also led to massive displacements of the people, the chairman of the Tiv Cultural and Social Association, Bali chapter, Matthew Baki, told our correspondent that two persons were killed in Bali “with several others badly injured.” He said the attacked in Bali community which led to the killing of two persons, occurred at about 2a.m., adding that the “police came in this morning to evacuate the corpse and took those injured to Bali General hospital.” Also confirming the separate attacks, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, said efforts to track down at the perpetrators were on top gear. Various persons from the crisis communities who spoke with DAILY POST, felt sad that the leadership of the state has not deemed it fit to put in place permanent measures that would bring the killings to an end. The leadership of the state chapter of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), accused Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku of alleged refusal to wade into the ongoing killings. Akeredolu urges farmers to protect themselves against herdsmen 