At least, 21,000 unemployed youths are struggling to get a place as casual teachers for two years in Ogun State, DAILY POST reports. The justle for the teaching positions followed an announcement by the state government that it would recruit 5,000 casual teachers under the Ogun State Teaching Experience Acquisition Channel (Ogun TEACh). The new recruitment exercise came on board after the government cancelled the recruitment of 1,500 teachers, who were earlier shortlisted for the Ogun State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) teaching job. DAILY POST reported that the government’s decision to dump those recruited initially sparked outrage as the shortlisted applicants staged a protest in Abeokuta on March 30. Recall that the recruitment of 1,500 teachers began in 2019, but it was, however, stalled following the COVID-19 lockdown which brought about the closure of schools for almost six months. Despite the agitations of the shortlisted applicants, the state government went ahead with the new arrangement, saying 21,000 job seekers indicated interests in becoming casual teachers for two years. The Commissioner for Education, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, hinted that the state government had screened 18,000 out of the 21,000 applicants. They are to fill the existing vacancies in primary, secondary and technical colleges under the casual teaching programme, receiving stipends monthly. Arigbabu, in a statement on Wednesday, said the process started with an online registration where 18,000 candidates were shortlisted for the screening test that had taken place in four centres across the state. “This is the first test, candidates will sit for the Computer Based Test (CBT) after which those that successfully scale through will go through the second stage which is the oral interview. “After the oral interview, we will pick the successful candidates that will be fit to teach in our schools,” the Commissioner said. Unemployment: Graduates, dropouts to learn animal, crop production from NDE 