Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has redeemed his pledge of N280m to families of the 14 security personnel killed by gunmen during a recent attack on security formations in Rivers State. Governor Wike had during a condolence visit to the State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka last week Monday, announced the donation of N20 million (twenty million) to each family of the officers killed by gunmen. On Monday, the Governor presented the cheques to 11 widows of the late Police officers at the State Police Command, two bereaved family members of the Nigerian Airforce at the Nigerian Airforce Base and one widow of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corp (NCDC) official in Port Harcourt. The Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Tammy Danagogo, who presented the cheques on behalf of the Government, said the gesture was in fulfillment of the Governor’s earlier promise to alleviate the plight of the widows and their children. He said “His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike deeply sympathizes with you. We know there is nothing else he can do to bring your husbands, fathers and brothers back to you but he has asked me to tell you that in situations like this, we look unto God and pray that God will continue to support you and show His grace to you. “He wants you to know that your husbands and fathers did not die in vain but died for their fatherland and God will certainly take care of all that concerns them. Men may not be able to do much to assuage your feelings but be rest assured that God Almighty will take care of you. “The Governor has asked us to bring this token of N20 million each to the widows and children of the deceased security personnel.” He further noted that their role as a Government is to always “identify with people who make sacrifices for the good of humanity, the good of Nigeria and the State”. According to a statement issued by office of the SSG, Governor Wike further assured the State security personnel of his continuous commitment and support as they discharge their duties. Receiving the cheques on behalf of the bereaved families of slain officers, the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka thanked the Governor and assured of the continuous service of his men to the security of the State. According to him “we are happy that the Governor has extended his hand of friendship to us. We have been sad all these while, but today, the Governor in his magnanimity has come to wipe out our tears.” “We appreciate the Governor and pray that God will continue to help him the way he is helping us. We know that money cannot bring back life but invest the money properly so your children will not drop out of school, use it wisely,” he added. Also speaking , the Commander 115 Special Operations Group, Nigeria Airforce, Port Harcourt, Group Captain G. E. Laha, thanked the Governor for the kind gesture and promised to continue rendering good service in the State. Gov Ortom sympathizes with families of 11 slain soldiers 