Some Igbo groups in the United States have knocked the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, over his shoot-at-sight order. The groups; Coordination of World Igbo Congress (WIC), Igbo World Assembly (IWA) and Nzuko Umunna; in a statement made available to DAILY POST, lamented that terrorism, killer herdsmen and banditry currently ravaging the north has spread to the south. It condemned the posture of the Federal Government and response by the law enforcement agents to the situation, saying it is capable of turning the southeast into a war zone. “For some reasons that seem odious and ominous, the utterances from the Presidency, Government and law enforcement officials are laced with a desire to turn the region into a war zone rather than seek for its peace, stability and development. The worst case scenario was the latest comment credited to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba. “On Tuesday, May 18, 2021, Nigeria’s number one law enforcement officer was quoted to have said: “If anyone accuses you of human rights violation, the report will come to my table and you know what I will do. So, take the battle to them wherever they are and kill them all. Don’t wait for an order.” This statement if true, is a call for genocide, extrajudicial killings and human rights violations against people of the South East and South-South regions,” the statement read. “We have waited to be sure that the Police boss was either misquoted or had a Freudian slip that would be denied and clarified but none of that was done. Not only are we shocked that the IGP Baba did not deny and disassociate himself from such a murderous statement but we are equally surprised that the Presidency failed to call him to order and reassure the people of the zones who are already traumatised by such order that this is not the case. We want to believe that this is not a state policy that continues to designate the old Eastern region as an occupied territory since the end of the Biafra-Nigerian civil war.” The groups said the order violates the Geneva convention on war crimes and laws protecting civilians in conflict. They said the IGP and President Muhammadu Buhari will be held responsible if anything untoward happens to people of the South East and South-South. “For emphasis, we want to bring the attention of the IGP, Service Chiefs and Presidency that the international conventions and international rules are not being followed in the latest rules of engagement for their operations in Igboland and therefore, constitute acts or intent to commit genocide. “As an organisation that believes in peace anchored on equity, fairness and justice, we urge the government to explore dialogue as an avenue to lasting peace in the regions and not a military-era shoot-at-sight order. We are asking the government to embrace dialogue, engage with the people and leaders of these regions in order to assuage their grievances, which borders on marginalisation and systemic discrimination. “We are also using this opportunity to inform the international community and human rights organisations that if the government and law enforcement agents continue with the bloodletting, then President Muhammadu Buhari and his service chiefs will have cases to answer at the International Criminal Court. “Finally, for a sustainable solution to the myriads of problems bedeviling the country, which have been exacerbated by the sectional and clannish nature of the current administration, we call on the Federal Government to embrace the 12-point agenda adopted by the governors of the Southern Nigeria, especially on restructuring, state policing and ban on opening grazing of livestock,” the statement concluded. Profile of Nigeria’s new Police chief, Usman Alkali Baba 