Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, on Wednesday, rewarded winner of the 2020 edition of the Sustainable Development Goals’ (SDGs’) national mathematics competition for girls, Miss Chinwe Mary Blessing Onodagu. Miss Chinwe, an SS1 student of Federal Government Girls’ College, Lejja, Nsukka Local Government Area, Enugu State, and from Aku in Igbo-Etiti LGA of the state, was crowned the “Nigerian Mathematics Queen 2020,” in March, 2021, in Abuja, after emerging the overall best student in the mathematics competition among Nigerian girl students. Receiving the SDGs’ award winner at the Government House, Enugu, Gov. Ugwuanyi congratulated her for making Enugu State proud, describing her “a special gift and blessing from God”. The Governor first thanked God for the feat and went further to commend her parents and the entire management of the school, stressing: “I can confirm that Federal Government Girls’ College, Lejja, is a success story”. Gov. Ugwuanyi announced a cash donation to the girl for achieving the feat and another donation to the school to encourage them to produce more award winners. The Governor equally announced that his administration will pay the girl’s school fees till she graduates from the college. Responding, the visibly elated ‘Queen’ expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for the recognition, saying: “I am very happy; I pray that God will continue to help him (Ugwuanyi) in all he is doing. He will be prospering in everything he lays his hands. “I am also thanking God for making it possible for me to emerge the winner of the competition. I am equally thanking my parents and the school. I am hoping that more students will get this kind of opportunity”. On her advice to other students, Miss. Chinwe said: “If you read hard and pray hard, your dreams will come true”. Present at the event were the Executive Secretary, Enugu State Scholarship and Education Loans Board (ESSELB), Barr. Levi Uche Abonyi, the Director/Principal of the school, Dr. (Mrs.) C. A. Ogar, and the girl’s parents, Engr. Dr. Peter Onodagu and Dr. Mrs. Beatrice Onodagu, among other. No nation develops without Mathematics – Prof Alli warns 