Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Monday arrested the immediate past governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, for questioning. The spokesperson for the commission, confirmed this yesterday. 2. The Federal Government yesterday disclosed that 70 per cent of corruption cases are perpetrated by persons who use anonymous companies, stating that over $1 billion has been recovered by governments using beneficial ownership data. Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, made this disclosure in Abuja. 3. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum, yesterday, rose from a meeting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, and called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately send an Executive Bill to the National Assembly to amend the Nigerian Constitution. This was contained in a six-point communique issued at the end of the meeting. 4. The Defence Headquarters has said that a minimum of $2billion is needed annually for the next three years to address the need of the armed forces. Director of Production, Defence Headquarters, Air Vice Marshall M. A. Yakubu, stated this yesterday. 5. Gunmen, on Saturday, invaded the Kono Boue community in Khana LGA of Rivers State and killed four young men. The Public Relations Officer of the Community Development Committee (CDC), Golden Nwibakpo, confirmed the incident. 6. Governors on the platform of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) have appealed to the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to exercise calm and restraint in its engagement with the Kaduna State government. The appeal was contained in a statement signed by the NGF chairman and Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi. 7. The Presidency on Monday described as false and a distraction the call by a group, ‘Support to Osinbajo’, who are mobilising Nigerians to support the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo’s 2023 presidential ambition. His Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande clarified in a statement yesterday. 8. The Independent National Electoral Commission will this week meet heads of security agencies as part of moves to end attacks on its offices in some parts of the country. Chief Press Secretary to the INEC Chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi spoke on Monday. 9. The Lagos State Police Command yesterday granted the embattled Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James popularly known as Baba Ijesha bail. His lawyer, Adesina Ogunlana, confirmed the development on Monday. 10. The Federal Government has claimed that it has uncovered about 476 online publication sites dedicated to churning out of fake news daily to fight the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed made the allegations yesterday in Abuja.