The General Manager, Abia State Community and Social Development Agency (ACSDA), Dr. Chinatu Njoku has stated that the administration of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has given new impetus to community development projects scattered across the LGAs of Abia State. He revealed that the Abia Government had spent more than 1.4 billion naira in community development apart from infrastructural developments in the State. Njoku, who disclosed this in an interview with newsmen in Umuahia, further revealed that the State government through the agency had executed 543 community development projects across 250 communities in the State and stated that the projects were spread into seven sectors, including environment, electricity, education, health, water, transport and social economy. He further explained that the Governor equally paid the mandatory counterpart fund as prescribed by the World Bank. The ACSDA Boss said that the ACSDA is a project of the Abia State government with funding assistance from the World Bank, lauding the Ikpeazu administration’s commitment to community development. According to him, “it is an agency of the State government whose business is to sustainably increase the access of the poor in social and natural resources. This we do through funding of communities development plans. Our assessment is that the Governor has done marvelously well. The Governor has done so well as far as community development is concerned”. The ACSDA General Manager used the opportunity to disclose that Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in conjunction with his colleagues was coming up with what is known as Nigeria COVID-19 Action Recovery and Stimulus Economic. He disclosed that the program is intended to cushion the effects of COVID-19 on the economy of the people. Njoku said that the agency was out to ensure that Abia keyed into the program, adding that the program would cover areas of livelihood assistance, food security and SME. He appreciated the Governor for other achievements done in other sectors of the economy, including Made in Aba products, SME developments, road infrastructure, agricultural revolution, security among others. The General Manager called on the federal government to deploy a better approach in handling security and other raging national issues, while advising Abia people and residents to ensure they paid their taxes, as well as keep faith with the Ikpeazu-led administration. Ikpeazu declares state of emergency in Abia water sector, signs bill into law 