The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ijesa North Federal Constituency of Osun State has dissociated itself from The Osun Progressives, a splinter group within the party, reaffirming their support for the Governor Adegboyega Oyetola-led administration in the state. This decision was contained in an address by a party chieftain, Jumoke Ogunkeyede, during a press conference organised at the party secretariat in Obokun Local Government Area. Ogunkeyede maintained that any attempt by a selfish clique to stand in opposition to the current administration was tantamount to an evil, egregious and unscrupulous act which should be discountenanced in its entirety. In his words, “it is unfortunate that with all the giant strides of Mr. Governor in the state, some elements under the guise of The Osun Progressive (TOP) have made themselves willing tools in the hand of the devil, all with the aims of distracting Mr. Governor from properly managing the Osun economy which was once crippled. We will use all our arsenals to stand by Mr. Governor to continue his good work in Osun beyond 2022. “We will also resist these disgruntled ones until they retrace their steps and team up with the people’s governor whose hard work has been earning him accolades and awards from within the state and all over Nigeria. “Under no circumstance will the leadership and members of this Federal Constituency abandon the truly progressive efforts of our governor for a group whose only cause of action is cruel hatred towards a perfectly responsible, responsive and a performing governor whose level of attentiveness is second to none.” While urging the governor not to be deterred by the ongoing evil antics, they noted that the open statement in support of the governor was a further affirmation of their earlier endorsement for him to continue with his good work beyond 2022 adding that the entire federal constituency had been well repositioned to give him a landslide victory in future elections. Meanwhile, DAILY POST can reliably report that a billboard erected by the Caretaker Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Rasaq Salinsile, to congratulate the Minister of Interior and former governor of the state, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, on his 64th birthday was destroyed yesterday. The billboard, which was erected at the famous Old Garage area of Osogbo, the state capital, was said to have been destroyed by some unknown persons in the early hours of Monday, 24th May, 2021. Osun 2022: Aregbesola, Oyetola lock horns as splinter group emerges 