The Senate of the University of Ibadan, on Monday extended the tenure of the Acting Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Babatunde Ekanola. DAILY POST recalls that Ekanola was appointed as Acting Vice Chancellor of the University in December 2020 for the period of six months after crisis erupted over the appointment of a new Vice Chancellor of the institution. DAILY POST gathered that Ekanola’s appointment became necessary after the expiration of the tenure of the immediate past Vice Chancellor, Professor Idowu Olayinka in December. Our correspondent learnt that the six months tenure of the Acting Vice Chancellor is to end on 31st May this year. DAILY POST had on Saturday reported that the Senate of the University had fixed an emergency meeting for Monday (17/5/2021). Our correspondent gathered from some members of the Senate members that the meeting was summoned in order to reappoint the Acting Vice Chancellor, though some members of the Senate had kicked against the move. Some of those who spoke with DAILY POST argued that such extension of tenure of the Acting Vice Chancellor was a violation of the Universities Autonomy Act which states that an Acting Vice Chancellor should not spend more than six months in office. One of the professors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, “The extension of the tenure is contrary to the University Act. Acting Vice Chancellor should not spend more than six months in office. Instead of reappointing the Acting Vice Chancellor, it is expected that we appoint another person. “That is what the law provides, there is no room for re-appointment. It is against the university act.” DAILY POST, however, reports that despite the opposition to the planned extension, the Senate of the University has reappointed the Acting Vice Chancellor. The tenure elongation which takes effect from June 1, 2021 is subject to confirmation by the Governing Council of the University, DAILY POST gathered. Our correspondent learnt that Senate at its meeting on Monday held within the university premises approved the extension. But the Council of the University according to section 5 (13) of the Act is to appoint an Acting Vice Chancellor in case of vacancy in the office of the Vice Chancellor, based on the recommendation of the Senate of the University. The Acting Vice Chancellor according to section 5 (14) of the law is expected to leave the office after the expiration of the six months tenure. Section 5 (14) of the act specifically states that the law does not make provision for re-appointment or extension of the tenure of Acting Vice Chancellor. Our correspondent gathered that the governing council of the institution is expected to meet any moment from now to either endorse the appointment or reject it. null UniJos VC tussle: Staff, students urge FG to be transparent as protest hit university 