The Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, has called on Nigerians to promote the positive sides of the country instead of demarketing her nation on social media networks. The Speaker in a statement by his Media Aide, Mr. Kunle Alabi to commemorate Eid-El-Fitr and made available to DAILY POST on Wednesday stressed that, the continued efforts of some Nigerians using the media to always exaggerate happenings in the country to the international communities will do no good to the nation as no investor will be attracted to a badly reported country. He held that with the citizens’ determination and patriotism, the country will overcome her present challenges of criminal activities pervading almost all the states of the Federation. Owoeye urged Nigerians to be focused on one indivisible country, saying sooner than later, there will be an end to criminal activities of insurgents, bandits and kidnappers with the new tactics of security agencies in the nation. In his words, “It is not in doubt that the past one month has been a period of sober reflection’s and closeness to the Almighty Allah by all Muslim faithful over the world, Nigeria and Osun. “The period has afforded us to pray for the peace and unity of our state and nation. “We must not stop at Ramadan. We must continue to pray fervently for Nigeria so that the current situation can become a stepping stone to greatness. “Though it is not yet Uhuru with our security but we are beginning to witness that the military and other security agencies are recently on top of their game in combating insurgencies and kidnappings. We will definitely rejoice at the end of the day. “I will also want to enjoin those at the helm of affairs to always prioritise people’s welfare and place their interest above individual and personal aspirations. Political office holders should inculcate right attitude that will guarantee peace and stability of Nigeria”, he concluded. Information in this email and any attachments is confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual(s) to whom it is addressed or otherwise directed. If you are not the recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution or taking action in relation of the contents of this information is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful.