There is palpable tension in the Ogba area of Lagos following the alleged shooting of two motorcycle riders by the Police. The incident occurred barely one day after thugs attacked motorists at Mile 12 in broad daylight on Thursday. The mob action followed the stabbing to death of Sadiq Oloyo by Aliyu Shuaibu of Gengere community. Oloyo’s death sparked chaos that caused the Police to order the arrest of 13 leaders in the area. The Wednesday’s order by the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, didn’t seem to bother the warring factions who trooped out the next day. Armed with dangerous weapons, they pounced on commuters, smashed cars and took valuables before the Police intervened. A number of the hoodlums were apprehended. On Friday morning in Ogba, people scampered for safety as gunshots rented the air. Security operatives attached to the State Task Force were on a mission to enforce the ban on motorcycles. As the bike owners resisted the officials, one of them was reportedly shot. Another was shot during the ensuing protest. These deepened the face-off and led to the violence that got people running for safety Although the situation is currently under control, witnesses fear there may be reprisals. A resident in Ogba told DAILY POST that the relative calm may be disrupted at the slightest provocation. The Police has reinforced security in the area, Mile 12, and others where riots were recorded in recent weeks. Last week, a clash between motorcyclists and thugs working for a transport union took an ethnic dimension – Hausas vs Yoruba. The security of the Lagos State University (LASU) was breached. Stones were hurled into the premises through the main gate, while students were chased back into the school. The situation in Lagos, Nigeria’s main commercial city, is getting worse by the day, with criminals engaging in cult war, traffic robbery and violence, witnesses said. The state government and the Police insist the challenge is under control but residents argue otherwise. They urged the authorities to act timely and decisively.