A member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) currently undergoing his mandatory one-year national service in Jigawa State has been arrested by police in Bauchi State, for allegedly defrauding two businessmen. The corps member, Shuaib Abubakar, a 23-year-old from Ganjuwa Local Government Area of Bauchi State, was said to have made fake bank transfers to effect payment for the goods bought from his two victims. Abubakar, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ahmed Mohammed Wakil, informed in a press release he signed and made available to DAILY POST in Bauchi on Friday, was arrested on 6th May, 2021 by operatives of States Intelligence Bureau of the Bauchi State Police Command, who acted on credible Intelligence.  According to the PPRO, a Superintendent of Police (SP), committed the crime when he visited his friend in Bauchi, adding that the suspect had admitted to the crime. “The operatives of the States Intelligence Bureau, Bauchi Command acted on credible Intelligence which led to the arrest of one Shuaib Abubakar 23 yrs old of Ganjuwa LGA. Shuaib, who is currently undergoing his compulsory National Youth Service (NYSC) at Roni LGA of Jigawa State, was on a visit to his friend in Bauchi. “The suspect was arrested on 6th May, 2021 after he defrauded two businessmen by name Emeka Aaron and Ahmed Muhammed by making a fake bank transfer to effect payment of goods he purchased from them. “Upon interrogation, the suspect admitted to being a fraudster. He further revealed that he is a graduate of Medical Physiology from a University in Kampala, Uganda,” SP Wakil stated.  He informed that exhibits recovered from the suspect included two SIM cards; one cell phone; student identification card of the ESGT University in Cotonou, Benin Republic, adding that the suspect would be charged to court. In another development, the police spokesman informed that one Lamido Gunduma of Unguwar Yari-mari, Jamaare, who conspired with another person to carry out an illegal abortion on his girlfriend, Jamila Saidu (35) which led to her death. “On 07/04/2021 at about 1200hrs one Saidu Iliyasu of Zubuki area Jamaare L.G.A, Bauchi came to Jamaare Divisional Headquarters and reported that on the 5/04/2021 his daughter, one Jamila Saidu 35yrs of the same address, was declared missing following which a search party was organized, but to no avail, until on the 08/04/2021 at about 1030hrs when her decomposed body was discovered with a new born child in a sewage at her boyfriend’s house identified as Lamido Gunduma at Unguwar Yari-mari Jamaare. “During preliminary investigation, it was discovered that the above suspect criminally conspired with one Ishaq Abdullahi aged 34yrs of the same address and fixed a canola into the arm of the said Jamila Saidu and administered her with Dextrose water, Quinine and Ostagen in order to abort her pregnancy which culminated into an induced labour that resulted to the death of the victim and new born baby.  “The suspect then deposited the corpses in the sewage system within his compound and fled to Kwadon in Gombe State where he was tracked and arrested. “He has been charged to court for prosecution accordingly,” Wakil stated.  Meanwhile, the PPRO has stated the commitment of the state Commissioner of Police Bauchi State Command, CP Abiodun Sylvester Alabi, to ensuring the safety and security of lives and properties of citizens in the state. He urged people of the state to as much as possible aid the police in the discharge of their duties especially through useful and timely information that would help in nipping crime in the bud. Police arrest suspects defrauding traders, POS operators with fake bank alerts in Ibadan [PHOTOS] 