The Lagos State Government has expressed concern that the value of damage to property affecting various parastatals during the EndSARS protest is yet to be determined, several months after. Afolabi Ayantayo, Special Adviser, Parastatals Monitoring Office, disclosed this during the ministerial press briefing on Tuesday to commemorate the second anniversary of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration held in Alausa, Ikeja. According to Ayantayo, 20 parastatals were affected in varying degrees during the EndSARS protest in the State, adding that the government is still assessing and compiling the data. He said: “Following the unfortunate EndSARS protest and the attendant heavy destruction of public and private property, the State suffered heavy damage to critical public property, and this nearly brought the State to a standstill economically. “The parastatals were not spared; their assets were either stolen or destroyed. To determine the level of the damage to the parastatals, the office carried out an on-the-spot assessment of destroyed and stolen assets of the State’s parastatals. “The report of the assessment has been forwarded to Mr. Governor. It’s pertinent to mention here that 20 parastatals were affected in varying degrees which include the Lekki Concession Company, Motor Vehicle Administration Agency, Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Public Works Corporation, Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory, Lagos State Metropolitan Area Transport Authority.” Asked to disclose the total value of property lost by parastatals to the End SARS protest, Ayantayo added: “We are still assessing and compiling the data. “The special committee set up by Mr Governor to come up with a total assessment of losses suffered is still working on the estimate and is yet to submit a full report.” DAILY POST recalls that violence, looting and destruction occurred last year in the wake of the EndSARS protests across Nigeria as some hoodlums attacked protesters, who had been demanding an end to police brutality across the country. Also, recall that armed thugs had attacked peaceful protesters in Abuja. Cattle more valuable than Oil, gas – Adamu Garba 