Students of the College of Health and Technology, Ijero-Ekiti, on Wednesday, went rampage following the collapse of 100 of thier colleagues after allegedly inhaling chemicals during a fumigation excercise on the campus. DAILY POST gathered that the students collapsed while writing their examinations in their various halls after inhaling the chemicals when the operatives of the Federal Fire Service were undertaking a fumigation exercise. An eyewitness who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspodent that the no fewer than 100 students slumped as result of the chemicals and they were rushed to hospitals outside the campus for medical treatment. It was learnt that some of the students hospitalized were said to be asthmatic and developed complications as a result of the leaked chemicals inhaled during the fumigation excercise. Enraged by the development, the teeming students in their numbers mobilised and beseiged the institution’s administative unit to demand explanation from the management. The protest later turned violent as the administrative building, lectures’ rooms, vehicles of lecturers and other properties worth millions of naira were destroyed by the rampaging, forcing the lectures and other staff to scamper for safety. When contacted, the State’s Comissioner for Health, Dr. Banji Filani confirmed the incident, saying the situation was under control and normalcy has returned. “Earlier today, I received a call from the provost of the College of Technology as regards the situation in the institution. what we understand was that the school has received a memo from the Federal Fire Service that fumigation will be done. “The fumigation was carried out today but unfortunately it created panic and more than that was adverse effects on over 100 students who were hospitalized at the Ijero state Specialist Hospital. ‘With 64 have been discharged and about 34 of them still in the facility. Most of them are in good condition. We had sent two to the FETHI for close observation and to ensure that they are in good state and one is undergoing investigation in the Afe Babalola Teaching Hospital. “We are monitoring the situation in order to ensure everyone is safe. we have mobilized additional doctors and nurses, oxygen cylinders to the hospital to make sure that everybody is safe”, he said. Filani disclosed that some operatives of the Fire Service that undertook to the fumigation excercise had been arrested and cooling their legs in Police custody for thorough investigation. Kano food poisoning: NAFDAC arrests merchants of dangerous chemicals 