The Kaduna State Government has confirmed that travellers were attacked by bandits on the Abuja-Kaduna highway on Friday. DAILY POST had reported that former Senator Shehu Sani, raised alarm over the abduction of people along the Kaduna-Abuja road. The former lawmaker who took to his Twitter account on Friday evening to raise the alarm said the bandits blocked the expressway. He said many people were making a fast U-turn in the face of the gunshots. Confirming the development, Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan in a statement on Saturday said the number of people abducted by bandits during the attack is yet to be confirmed. He revealed that “security agents responded swiftly to distress calls and checked their operation”, adding that they will publicly disclose the number of people abducted as soon as security agencies revert. “At around 3:30pm, the Security Operations Room started receiving distress calls of a blockage around Kurmin Kare area of Kaduna-Abuja Road and immediately, troops and the police operatives swiftly moved to the general area, saw motorists stranded on both lanes, and subsequently cleared the road. ‘‘The personnel after clearing the accumulated traffic saw one Honda car with Reg. No. RBC 864BL recovered with broken rear windscreen and another vehicle found empty with some luggage. From preliminary findings, the occupant or occupants may have been unaccounted for. “Furthermore, besides the Honda vehicle, the following five citizens hidden in the forest appeared with their driver who confirmed they were complete having escaped in the commotion. “As of this moment (9:40pm), the status of the occupant(s) of the Honda cannot be substantiated, and the veracity of the report that scores were kidnapped cannot be confirmed. The public will be briefed as soon as the Government of Kaduna State receives operational feedback,” the statement said. May Day: Kaduna residents protest increased incidents of kidnapping, killings 