HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA (HURIWA) has decided to petition the United Nations Education and Scientific Organisation (UNESCO) and the Secretary-General of the United Nations to demand that these international bodies and Leaders put pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari to take steps and concrete measures to put to an end the incidents of violent kidnapping of Nigerian Students by different armed non state actors. We suspect that some members of the Federal Government agencies and security forces are benefiting from the kidnapping of students through ransoms payment. We also think that Nigeria will appear hypocritical in the eyes of International Community if the nation under this government goes ahead to celebrate the forth coming children day celebration and Democracy Day either on May 29th or June 12th without recusing the kidnapped greenfield University student within 24 hours from today. The federal government should attend to the emerging news that a 400 Level Student of Aquaculture and Fisheries Management, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta(FUNAAB),Toyinbo Nathaniel Olayinka has been abducted by suspected kidnappers in a private Farm at Abule, Itoko, Odeda, Ibadan Road. Abule Itoko where the student was reportedly abducted around 8a.m on Saturday is about 25 mins drive from the University Permanent Site at Alabata Road, Abeokuta. According to the friend of the abducted student and a nursing mother who witnessed his abduction, he was kidnapped by gunmen at a private Farm in Abule Itoko,a village in Odeda Local Government where he’s been living and working as a practicing livestock farmer for the past three years to sustain himself as a self-sponsored indegent student of the University. The Management of the University has reported the abduction at Ogun State Police Command headquarters, Eleweeran and it’s working earnestly with the Command to ensure the safety and release of the kidnapped student. So, we in the HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA are calling for the suspension of this year’s Children Day celebration and the Democracy day so there will be no need celebrating either of them. And Nigeria will look like banana republic in the eyes of the World if we go ahead celebrating while the Nigerian students are constantly being kidnapped and their fundamental Human Rights are being violated on daily basis and the government shows a lack of interest to protect these Rights. Also, constitutional democracy suffers when government is incapable of defending the citizens because the PRIMARY LEGAL OBLIGATION OF GOVERNMENT IS THE PROTECTION OF LIVES ABD PROPERTY OF THE CITIZENS. It is shameful that the government has serially failed to rescue the remaining kidnapped Chibok Secondary School girls for so many years by Boko haram terrorists even when that was the first promise he Muhammadu Buhari made to win election in 2015 which he has failed to deliver. Aside failing to rescue Chibok Borno State’s School girls the government failed to stop the kidnap of Dapchi Yobe State School girls. Although government went ahead and rescued some of the girls and left the only Christian girl named Leah Sheribu with Boko haram terrorists till date so this government has failed the credibility test to defend Nigerian Children/student so it can not be seen hosting a celebration of the commemoration of the Nigerian children nor does it make sense marking DEMOCRACY DAY when the government can’t defend the fundamental freedoms of the citizens. This is because it makes no sense celebrating children you refused to protect. If we may ask, why has Muhammadu Buhari’s administration failed to arrest and prosecute the armed fulani militants who kidnapped students in Zamfara, Kastina and Niger State? Why is the government promoting impunity and lawlessness? Why the selective enforcement of the law by Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration? Whereas this government refused to arrest Fulani kidnappers of students in the North, this government has sent troops armed to their teeths to the South East to shoot on sight suspected members of IPOBS just for setting up Eastern Security Network ESN for allegedly going after armed Fulani herdsmen terrorizing farmers in the South East? So this is apartheid policy. 17 GREENFIELD UNIVERSITY STUDENTS KIDNAPPED OVER 33 DAYS AGO ARE STILL WITH THE KIDNAPPERS. COMRADE EMMANUEL ONWUBIKO: NATIONAL COORDINATOR: HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA (HURIWA). MAY 24TH 2021.