The family of late Enobong Christopher Jimmy, a motorist who was murdered on Sunday by a suspected soldier, has appealed to the Federal government and the Nigerian Army to ensure that justice is served. Late Jimmy an indigene of Ikot Obio Akai in Mkpat Enin Local government area of Akwa Ibom State was killed by a suspected soldier whom he offered a lift in his car on his way from Eleme, in Port Harcourt, to Akwa Ibom State. The Army officer, according to the family source, did not only shoot his victim but inflicted several dagger wounds on his chest. DAILY POST had reported that the suspect dumped late Jimmy’s corpse by the wayside and escaped with his vehicle to Ukanafun LGA, where he was tracked and arrested by the operatives of the Ikot Abasi police division. “The military hierarchy was at the state police headquarters, Ikot Akpan Abia on Monday to pick up the soldier for a Court Marshal before handing him over to the police for prosecution” an earlier report had said. Speaking with journalists in Uyo, on Wednesday, the brother of the deceased, Mr. Idorenyin Ikpongeyen urged the Federal Government as well as the military to ensure that justice is done. Ikpongeyen also urged Nigerians to join their voices to ensure that the matter is not swept under the carpet. He lamented that the deceased who was on his way to visit his family members in Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, left behind a very young family as his last child is just a year old. He said, “It is very painful that we had to lose our brother to the hands of an ungodly Nigerian military personnel, all because he wanted to steal or reap from where he did not sow. “I beg the Federal government, the Nigerian Army and the general public to help fight this fight for us, I beg the Nigeria government to bring justice to the one who murdered my brother, leaving his two kids and a wife behind.” He was until his death a staff of the Eco Clearing & Forwarding Company, Port Harcourt and the two children left behind aged eight and one respectively. Panic in Imo as gunmen strike again, shoot four motorists 