Adamu Garba, a former presidential aspirant, has berated President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo and their wives for staying away from the burial of Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru and other senior officers of the Nigerian Army on Saturday. As DAILY POST rightly observed, President Buhari and his Vice, Osinbajo were conspicuously missing at the burial of the late Chief of Army Staff, General Ibrahim Attahiru and others on Saturday. Attahiru and the other ten senior officers, died in a plane crash in Kaduna State on Friday when the Beachcraft 350 aircraft came down due to bad weather. The burial rites was attended by top dignitaries in Nigeria’s Armed Forces and they were laid to rest at the National Military Cemetery. And Adamu, an All Progressives Congress, APC, chieftain wondered why even the First and Second Ladies could not accompany Fati Attahiru, wife of the deceased Army Chief to her husband’s last burial. In a series of tweets on Sunday morning, Adamu said, “In a war situation, we lost four generals, majors and lieutenants, yet neither the President nor his vice, senate president nor his deputy, speaker nor his deputy deem it fit to grace the burial. “Even the wife of the COAS was neither accompanied by the First Lady or Second Lady. “Only two Govs, Zulum and Buni with a few ministers might have attended. While Gov. Wike is having political rally, other govs are attending a wedding in Kano. “I saw the video of the wife of late COAS walking to pay her last respect to her husband with a few friends. I was heartbroken. “Yet most of these leaders may say they have a very important reason why they didn’t attend. Coincidentally, all of them, none of them would sacrifice 30 minutes for the life of soldiers who died trying to protect us. The highest level officers of our land. How can that be? “For them, Twitter is enough for condolences, but they can go campaigning all over the country, during elections. “Apparently, the only thing that matters to our leaders is not us, or even the most senior members of their appointees, but political power.” Attahiru: Omokri reacts as Buhari, Osinbajo fail to attend burial of COAS, other military officers 