Former Senate President Bukola Saraki has responded to his indictment by a panel set up by the Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. The committee’s white paper recommended the prosecution of Saraki, his successor, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed and others for alleged “criminal conspiracies against Kwara”. Abdulqadir Abdulganiy, Saraki’s Press Officer for Local Matters, in a statement said neither his principal nor Ahmed got an invite to appear before the panel. He said the investigation was not about finding facts but throwing mud and staining the former governors. Abdulganiy stressed that Saraki and Ahmed will never be shy of giving an account of how they managed the assets of Kwara State. On the Kwara Mall, the aide described the project as the epicentre of economic activity in Ilorin, the state capital. “It’s importance is further underscored by the decision of the government to give the owners of businesses inside the mall a grant totalling about N1 billion to cushion the harsh effect of the ‘End SARS’ protest on their property.” On Shonga Farms, Abdulganiy said the government’s position demonstrates “the cluelessness” of the governor and his advisers. Abdulganiy wondered why officials of the administration hold the Shonga Farms as the glory of Kwara, but paint it in a bad light on some other occasions. “We are surprised that other companies that this government facilitated their investment into Kwara State like Dangote Flour Mills were not being cited as examples of how the previous administrations ‘misapplied’ the resources of the state. “Shonga Farms is not only a model of how we need commercial farming to revolutionise agriculture in Nigeria but it is the second commercial farm in the country. The farm today has an investment worth over $100 million and has in its service over 1,000 Kwarans in the state. It is a project that went through the scrutiny of President Olusegun Obasanjo and the CBN.” The former governor’s camp said it is aware that Abdulrazaq is “always incensed about Saraki” and will always seek to malign the former lawmaker. Abdulganiy advised the governor to focus on how to deliver on his promises to the people of Kwara “after he has allegedly wasted two years chasing shadows. May 29: Saraki congratulates PDP Governors 