The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA has accused operatives of Armed Forces of Nigeria under the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari of carrying out ‘fake killings’ of Fulani herdsmen and armed bandits in North West and Benue State but kill innocent residents of South East. HURIWA, in a statement on Monday by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, alleged that the the security operatives in the region have killed several innocent Igbo youths. According to HURIWA, the innocents youths are dying while the unknown gunmen continue to operate with impunity, attacking strategic government facilities in the South East. The Rights group wondered how the Imo State Police Command determined whether the persons being paraded were the killers of the former Presidential aide to President Jonathan, Mr. Ahmed Gulak who was gruesomely assassinated on Saturday in Owerri by men described as hoodlums. HURIWA noted that there is need for thorough, transparent and open investigation to be launched on the assassination of the former presidential aide to determine the “culpability or otherwise of those shown in the media by the police as the killers”. The statement reads, “This is because upon the unfortunate incident of the killing of Gulak, there is no empirical evidence demonstrating that Nigerian Police Force deployed science- based, evidence-associated forensic probe of the crime scene but relied on what they said was the testimony of one of the survivors who was reportedly the Cab driver who was driving the politician to the Sam Mbakwe International Airport before he met his unfortunate death. “We think the police in Imo State which is clearly being seen going from hostel to hostel in Owerri, arresting innocent students can not be relied upon to give the world the exact story of what transpired before, during and after the targeted killing of the APC Politician from Adamawa who reportedly visited Imo State.The Imo State Police command can’t be trusted. “First, the Police in Imo State blamed the dead man for his unfortunate fate because in their irrational word, Ahmed Gulak left his hostel room to the Airport without informing the Police and so he had no Police escorts. Now, the fact is that the acting Inspector General of Police had announced withdrawal of all Police escorts attached to VIPS in South East and South South as previously reported in the media. “So how is the Commissioner of Police in Imo State blaming the victim of an unfortunate assassination for the cruel fate that befell him when it was the IGP who announced withdrawal of Police escorts? So, how can any sane person accept hook, line and sinker, any conclusion reached by the Imo State Police Command that had blamed the dead man if the same lazy police comes up as they have with the latest tale by moon light that the killers of Gulak have been killed based on hear say evidence?” “Once more, can we advocate the adoption of 21st century technology in fighting crimes to such an extent that the police be mandated to comply with global best practices in the steps they take to investigate crimes including the deployment of forensic investigative skills?” “The Police and Soldiers are roaming about on the streets of Owerri and somewhere in Enugu and even interrupted a Church Service just to arrest the entire congregation for being members of indigenous peoples of Biafra. “But armed Fulani herdsmen are having field days in Niger State, Benue State and North West Region of Nigeria killing, maiming, kidnapping and destroying citizens and their property but these same Soldiers and Police who are actually killing suspected members of IPOB including innocent Igbo Youths, have always carried out “ audio” and fake raids of Zamfara forests and Kaduna forests even as kidnapped Greenfield University students were compelled by the armed Fulani kidnappers to pay N 150 million before they were released after a month but even when Sheikh Gumi visited these terrorists, the Army still allowed them to continue terrorizing Nigerians but the same Army and Police are now carrying out ethnic genocide in the South East of Nigeria and the world keeps quite. “We are calling on the World leaders to speak out before a mass revolt breaks out because these continued genocide may not be tolerated for too long because when you pushed some people to the wall, not all of them will break through the wall and run away. Some would be radicalised to be daring and to immediately stage a revenge. “I think the Central government wants to destroy the South East of Nigeria by deploying unruly soldiers and police to kill innocent youngsters only because of their ethnicity and religion. “The Nigerian Army spokesman was quick to announce the killing of Ikonso of Eastern Security Network and his Public Relations Jobber from Kano State syndicated the photo of the man but the same Army allowed students including 200 Islamiyah students to be kidnapped by armed Fulani militia in Niger State and no action has been taken”. Gulak: ‘They won’t go free’ – Buhari blows hot over death of Jonathan’s former aide 