Flt Lt Alfred Ayodeji Olufade may have had no inkling he would meet his death just two months after tying the knot with his beautiful wife. Olufade was one of the 10 military officers who lost their lives alongside the Chief Of Army Staff, COAS, Ibrahim Attahitu in the ill-fated military plane that crashed on Friday evening in Kaduna State. Their remains were interred at the National Military Cemetery in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja on Saturday evening. The entire nation has been plunged into mourning since the news of the unfortunate incident as tributes continue to pour in from concerned Nigerians. President Muhammadu Buhari while reacting to the incident on Friday said they died as heroes while ensuring peace and security of the entire country. Family and friends have taken to Twitter to mourn the deceased who is reportedly the only son of his parents. Here are some of the reactions as compiled by DAILY POST correspondent: @temto4u: What a huge loss to our community! Rest in peace Flt LT Alfred Olufade. We understand death only after it has placed its hands on someone we love. @alistairsoyode: It is a sad day in our family. Our lovely son on board Flt Lt AA Olufade gone. As we pray for all families on this, ask and request for immediate action by an independent internationally recognized body. We have to save the future of our country now. We are sad. @Gaabdo_: 3 months ago we were all here rejoicing. Today we mourn Loudly crying face Broken heart. You’ll live on forever in our hearts Flt Lt AA Olufade. Our own Ayo @slimscastle: It really hurts to know that my uncle’s only son was involved in the crash. FLT LT AA Olufade. May God give his newly wedded wife and parents the fortitude to bear the loss. @Peflakes: ACM Oyedepo and Flt Lt Olufade have been on my mind since the crash, both are probably the youngest in the crew. Wait how are flight crew selected? @yomi__lee: FLT LT. Olufade, one of the heroes we lost yesterday, appaz got married very recently and can’t help but imagine how happy he was on that day! Live your best life, take risks, make yourself happy, be good to people, and in all, know that tomorrow is not assured!   His manhood is too big – Divorce seeking woman tells court 