A lecturer at the Department of Software Engineering, Bayero University Kano, Sanah Abdullahi Muaz, has advocated unlocking the girl child’s potential in ICT. This is as Information and Communications Technology (ICT) retained as the highest growing sectors in the Nigerian economy in the first quarter of 2021 (Q1 2021) The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) had in its Q1 2021 report on Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) revealed that the country’s ICT sector has continued to overtake other sectors. Speaking at the third Bauchi Feminist Internet School (BAFIS) workshop a lecturer at the Department of Software Engineering, Bayero University, Kano, Sanah Abdullahi Muaz explained that technology was not gender-specific. Sanah said the girl’s potential can be unlocked if she acquires knowledge in technology.  “Technology is not gender-specific, Whatever that goes to the men’s lane, it can be done in a woman’s lane. “The most important thing is whenever you are approaching new trends you must have the understanding of aspects and the reality of it. Muaz submitted that instead of parents putting their male children alone in science academies, they ought to encourage the girl children as well to take to the sciences, adding that the girl-child can build a career in technology. She urged female children to understand that they have to gain knowledge for them to achieve success using the front door and not the back door. “I want them to face the challenge; I don’t want any girl to be using the backdoor, I want them to be using the front door but not anyhow. “The girl can also go to science. Agreed that there are some issues related to women but when you encourage them, when they have the proper guidance, when they are given the opportunity, there are so many potentials to be unlocked,” Muaz asserted. Also speaking, a Technical Officer with CITAD, Kamaludeen Umar, informed that BAFIS was organised by CITAD purposely to create youth champions that would help in providing gender inclusion in the area of information and communications technology, especially on the internet. According to him, “through that, it will help mostly females in the rural areas even in the urban area. We have the opportunity of using the internet positively for the betterment of their lives.” While emphasising the importance of ICT in modern days, Umar informed that CITAD was training females on how to use the internet, not only how to understand but also how to prevent themselves from gender-based violence.