Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has accepted the recommendations of the Special Visitation Panel on the appointment of the 9th Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the Lagos State University (LASU). The governor ordered the dissolution of the Governing Council and the removal of the Pro-Chancellor and Council Chairman for the flagrant violations of the extant laws guiding the appointment of a VC. Sanwo-Olu cancelled the second failed exercise to appoint the 9th Substantive Vice-Chancellor. He cited the flagrant contravention of extant laws, breach of due process, failure and disregard to follow laid down criteria guiding the process for the appointment as publicly advertised. A statement by Gbenga Omotoso, Commissioner for Information said in due course, a new Governing Council for LASU will be constituted. “The reconstituted Council shall conduct a new process for the appointment of the 9th Vice-Chancellor”, Omotoso noted. Members of the Joint Council and the Senate Committee who participated in the two failed exercises of 2020 and 2021 to appoint a 9th Vice-Chancellor are exempted from further participation in the VC appointment process. The Acting Vice-Chancellor and management of the University were directed to elect new council members from the Senate. The Registrar and Secretary to Council were ordered to proceed on leave with immediate effect till the end of the process for the appointment of the VC. The state government said they failed to advise the Joint Council and Senate Committee against taking wrong decisions, which were against the provision of the law during the two failed exercises of 2020 and 2021. An Acting Registrar will superintend over the new exercise, while the Acting VC is to forward to Sanwo-Olu, through the Surrogate Council (Special Adviser on Education), the list of all the Deputy Registrars of LASU for the purpose of appointing an Acting Registrar. “The Governor, following the recommendation of the Special Visitation Panel, shall be setting up a full Visitation Panel for Lagos State University immediately”, the statement added.