The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Anambra State has paraded a 48-year old plumber, Thomas Igbo for allegedly Defiling his three underaged daughters. The daughters whose ages were given as eight, three, and one and half years were sexually molested by their father, who claimed he was drunk. Mr David Bille told journalists on Thursday in Awka that “When we got the report, we swung into action, arrested one Thomas Igbo, a plumber residing in Enugwu-Ukwu town in Njikoka area of the state. “Our medical personnel later conducted a test and uncovered that the children were being abused sexually. The suspect confessed to the crime and very soon, we will conclude investigations and arraign him,” Billie said. The suspect, Thomas told journalists that he only had carnal knowledge of the eight-year-old daughter once and used his fingers to penetrate others at different times. “I had sex once with my eight years old daughter once, others I only used my fingers to penetrate their private parts when I am bathing them”, he said. Meanwhile, Anambra State governorship aspirant and daughter of former vice president of Nigeria, Dr Alex Ekwueme, Mrs Chidi Onyemelukwe has decried the neglect of Nigerian children. Onyemelukwe, a Peoples Democratic Party aspirant in Anambra in a message to mark the Children’s day celebration said Nigeria still has malnourished, trafficked and out of school children who need to be cared for. “As we mark this year’s Children’s Day to honour every child, our thoughts and prayers must be spared for some of our children who are victims of various forms of abuse, including neglect, trafficking, kidnapping, child labour, girl-child marriage, malnourishment, and unmet healthcare and educational needs. “The air of insecurity in and around Nigeria troubles everyone and for sure would be even more traumatising for our children. For their sakes, we need to work hard to restore peace to our land. “May we never lose focus of the truth in the saying that “we do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.” Let us all commit, on this day, to working doubly hard to bequeath a cleaner and greener and better environment to our children,” Onyemelukwe said. Lebanese arrested for allegedly sleeping with 14 underaged girls in Jos 