The Army has effected the arrest of one of the most notorious bandits leaders terrorizing communities in an operation in forests and other hideouts of bandits across three local government areas of Niger State. The Bandits leader, popularly known as Jack Bros Yellow was allegedly arrested from one of the forests between Shiroro and Rafi local government. Though, the military is yet to make public the arrest, a source close to one the communities told DAILY POST that the arrest of the bandits’ leader has greatly reduced their activities in the area in the last one week. According to the source, as a result of the development, other members of the gangs causing havoc on the people have gone into hiding. The source further added, “Jack Bros Yellow is the leader of one of the three groups of bandits that are operating around Shiroro, Rafi and Munya local government area. “Jack Bros Yellow is among those who asked some communities to pay N3million for peace to reign but when the money was paid, the other gang leaders short-changed him and his boys came and kidnapped about nine women from Galape village after Galkogo, Shiroro local government in January this year.” “He demanded ransom of N10million for the release of those women, and they are still under his custody since that January 5th until his arrest last week, but we are yet to see the women.” Jack Bros Yellow, it was further learnt has a link with some bandits groups in Zamfara State where he purportedly keeps victims if ransom is not paid on time. In another development, a housewife name withheld was said to have been kidnapped on Thursday and gang raped by a group of armed bandits in Suna village, Shiroro local government area. The woman was abducted after leaving the IDP camp in Zumba in search for some food stuffs, and raped by five bandits in a nearby bush to a point of death and afterward abandoned her. She was rescued and presently receiving medical treatment at the Minna General hospital. Ogun abduction: We know kidnappers’ hideout – Police 