The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described Senator Ademola Adeleke as a man of rare courage despite adversities and the alleged use of state power to rob him of a governorship position in 2018. The party also congratulated Adeleke on his graduation with honours from the Atlanta Metropolitan State College, America. The party in a statement issued by its state Chairman, Sunday Bisi and made available to DAILY POST said while others in similar positions may have resorted to whining in bitterness or even creating mischief to protest the controversial decisions of the courts after the 2018 elections, Senator Adeleke stayed focused on personal self-development and positive engagement as a true democrat and deemed it fit to use the period after the election in a very productive and rewarding manner. The party described Adeleke’s decision to enrol in school and obtain a degree in such a record time as a great motivation for the young and old who truly desire to play a meaningful role in development activities at any level of society. The statement added that “The fact that Adeleke’s very busy schedule as a family man, business entrepreneur and political leader did not prevent him from personal self-development is an attestation to his focused and results-oriented lifestyle. “We are proud of the attainment of these honours and even more proud of the heartwarming recommendations of the college authorities and your course mates. You have demonstrated beyond doubt that where there is a will, there will also be a way. “Your choice of the criminal justice sector as a field of study is also noteworthy in view of the current state of administration of justice and general issues surrounding insecurity in Nigeria. “With this additional feat to the previous ones in the social, economic and political spheres, you are even better positioned to drive the process of growth in our dear state and Nigeria as a whole.” DAILY POST recalls that in an earlier interview, the Osun PDP Chairman, Sunday Bisi said he was presenting Senator Ademola Adeleke as the party’s flagbearer in the 2022 Osun Gubernatorial Election in the state.