40 million ministers of the gospel from around the world gathered from Friday, May 21st to Saturday, May 22nd, as Pastor Chris Oyakhilome hosted his highly anticipated Global Ministers’ Classroom online event. The 24-hour live online minister training program was offered to new and seasoned church workers from all over the world. Through Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s teaching sessions and interactive programs, they were taught divine strategies for effective soul-winning and evangelism. Ministers were provided the opportunity to learn directly from the esteemed Man of God, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. Oyakhilome is the founder and leader of Christ Embassy, also known as LoveWorld Incorporated, which operates a global network of thousands of churches. The International School of Ministry, the educational arm of Christ Embassy and organizer of the event, encouraged participants to network with millions of ministers from around the globe. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome: “God’s word made flesh in Jesus”
During the Global Ministers’ Classroom event, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and several other esteemed Christ Embassy ministers took the stage to impart lessons and divine experiences to the participants. Kicking off the Global Ministers’ Classroom, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome announced, “You have the spoken word, the written word and the living word. The spoken word came through the prophets, the written word was delivered to us in scripture, and the living word is Jesus made flesh. God’s word made flesh in Jesus.” “The ministry which we are a part of is a spiritual ministry, and our sacrifices are also spiritual. This is very important. You know, God moved from the sacrifice of goats to the spiritual ministry. The priesthood was moved from earthly things to spiritual things. The sacrifices of earthly things to spiritual things,” he stated and continued: “So, the ministry that we are in today is spiritual. Prior to Jesus coming, what they had was the shadow of the real. It was just a shadow of good things to come.” Pastor Chris Oyakhilome then went on to talk about the earthly and the spiritual realm. “The spiritual realm is a real realm of life. In fact, it is more tangible than the earthly realm. It is more real than our earthly realm because it gave birth to this. The spiritual came first… God created the Heaven and the Earth.” Questions and scriptures during Global Ministers’ Classroom Millions Impacted as Pastor Chris Oyakhilome Teachings Reach New Heights during Global Ministers’ Classroom
During the 24-hour Global Ministers’ Classroom program, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome not only preached but also answered questions from viewers and read powerful scriptures. His long-time friend and renowned televangelist, Pastor Benny Hinn, also ministered at the online pastor training session. ”Without the Holy Spirit, we would not have had Christianity. The Holy Spirit is Christ without the limitation of the flesh. He is the limitless, Christ, because Jesus was limited in the flesh here on Earth. Today, by the spirit he is omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent all over the Earth,” Hinn explained. It was the third time that Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and his Christ Embassy congregation hosted the Global Ministers’ Classroom. The 2021 edition of the praised show prioritized equipping ministers of the gospel before the rapture. Pastor Chris Gives You a Gift
The Global Ministers’ Classroom featured several other special promotions this year. Participants could sign up for the “Pastor Chris Gives You a Gift” initiative and win microphones, pulpits, keyboards, drum sets, and guitars for their churches. The Global Classroom Organizing Committee also urged churches all over the world to host physical classrooms where participants could meet and watch Global Ministers’ Classroom together. Like in previous years, it was the International School of Ministry that brought Global Ministers’ Classroom to life. The organization is under the auspices of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s Christ Embassy empire and was founded in 2007. Since then, it has trained thousands of people from around the globe to become ministers of the gospel. Every year, the International School of Ministry hosts several online and onsite training sessions where participants are taught how to become pastors. “Your LoveWorld with Pastor Chris” returns in June
Pastor Chris Oyakhilome will be building on the success of Global Ministers’ Classroom with two upcoming major Christ Embassy events. On Sunday, June 6th, he will present the worship theme of June during his monthly Global Communion Service. Pastor Chris designates a theme of worship for every year and every month in the Christ Embassy universe. May is the Month of Illumination. In combination with the theme of illumination and preparation for the Global Ministers’ Classroom, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome declared, “God’s plan is to have your spirit illuminated in such a way that the light will dawn on your spirit. As you study the word, as you meditate on the word, as you worship God, and as you pray, your heart will be illuminated by God’s word. Get ready for extraordinary illumination, hallelujah.” He also recently announced the return of his popular prayer series, “Your LoveWorld with Pastor Chris” from Monday, June 7th to Friday, June 11th. It will be the fifth phase of the third season of the show. Pastor Chris Oyakhilome initiated “Your LoveWorld with Pastor Chris” in April 2020, and its viewership has grown exponentially. So far, more than 100 episodes have been produced, with the milestone episode airing in April 2021. 