It’s a well known fact that Nigerians are the biggest hustlers out there. We’re willing to go to extreme lengths to make it in this big tough world. As much as it’s a nice attitude to have, there are some areas we have to draw the line, don’t you think? Unfortunately, Car dealerships/auctioneers also have the hustling spirit and most times it is to our detriment. They sell us fancy cars that look good on the outside but are badly damaged on the inside. Here are 5 bitter truths about car dealerships: The profit made on each car is much more than you can imagine. For example a car that shouldn’t cost more than 5 Million is usually sold to you for 7 Million. A lot of cars that are sold in dealerships Lots have been repaired by “panel-beaters”. Yes, you guessed right, those are survivor cars. The odometer is most times rolled back to appear as if the car’s mileage/odometer is low and accurate. Some car dealerships prefer to smuggle or under pay in their cars instead of paying custom dues which could put the unsuspecting car purchaser in trouble in the future. Some cars that are being resold to clients are what we refer to as flooded cars sometimes. That means, they have most likely been submerged under water before. We’ve come up with a solution for you though! Here at Car1960, We will help you with the history and background check of the car before buying. We also send you physical inspection report and the video of the car we are getting for you. We get you the best cars at affordable rates without any stress on your part and we place you on our ‘50 days financing’ if you qualify. You can refer to our terms and conditions on our website www.car1960.com for more details. We order straight from our partner’s dealership warehouse in the USA which means you would get your money’s worth. Take advantage of our Financing options and let us deliver to you, a good car with a little % deposit while we do everything else for you. Our investors are ever ready to finance any of our requested cars. Are you still a bit skeptical? Don’t worry; we have the endorsement of the ever awesome Nollywood actor, MR AUTHENTIC. Check out our Instagram page to listen to his testimony. Feel free to walk into car1960 Lounge located at No. 6, Oladipupo Oduwole Street, Ojodu, Berger to interact with our experts. We give you 100% assurance that your money is safe and we deliver anywhere in Nigeria. We have a good relationship with Nigeria custom Services and we also have reliable drivers that help us deliver to our clients across the country. Visit www.Car1960.com for more information or contact us: +234 7049173779 (call & WhatsApp). You can also follow us on all social media platforms @Car1960 to find out about our deals and promos.