The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to suspend the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Bashir Jamoh. The PDP also called for a probe by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged looting of N1.5trillion and $9.5million belonging to the agency. The party described the reported fraud as another sad episode of the unending tale of stinking rot in the Buhari-led APC administration. Kola Ologbondiyan, the National Publicity Secretary, in a statement said officials, relations, cronies and persons close to the President have engaged in shameless treasury looting under the protective cover of the government. The PDP asserts that in allowing Jamoh to stay in office, the Buhari presidency has further heightened apprehensions in the public space that it is shielding fraudulent individuals. The spokesman said it is despicable that an administration that promised zero tolerance for corruption is watching as ministers, presidential aides, heads of parastatals and APC leaders are pillaging the coffers of ministries, department and agencies and stealing trillions of naira. Ologbondiyan recalled that the nation was earlier jolted by the revelation of a $65million (N31billion) fraud in the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), in which President Buhari’s estranged son-in-law, Gimba Yau Kumo, was allegedly involved. This followed the allegations of looting of N165billion in the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) under the ministerial purview of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the suspended Director-General, Hadiza Bala Usman. “This is in addition to allegations of involvement of the wife of the transportation minister in the exposed N48billion contract scam currently rocking the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).” PDP regretted that under Buhari, ministries and agencies of government, including NNPC, NEMA, NPA, NIMASA, NHIS, among others, are now Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) from which avaricious officials and APC leaders have stolen over N17trillion in the last six years. The party told Jamoh to step aside so that the EFCC will have unhindered access to vital documents on the matter. The PDP charged the EFCC not to succumb to blackmails but commence a rounded investigation, including the reported movement of public funds from the Treasury Single Account to private individuals. Ibom Deep Seaport to forestall $70 million loss to illegal fishing in Nigeria – NOA boss 