Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja, the nation’s capital, for a summit in France on Sunday morning. Femi Adesina, presidential spokesman, stated this in a statement on Saturday. 2. Scores of youths under the aegis of Omo Oduduwa United, yesterday, stormed the streets of Osogbo capital of Osun State to agitate for the Yoruba nation. Heavily armed security operatives took over strategic parts of the city to ensure the protest was not hijacked by hoodlums. 3. Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike on Saturday, reviewed the curfew in Port Harcourt City and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas of the state from 8.30pm to 6am with effect from Sunday, May 16, 2021. The governor disclosed this when he addressed the people of the state, in a broadcast, Saturday evening. 4. Four fleeing gunmen and a female nurse were shot dead on Saturday in Okpulor axis of Oyigbo in Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State. Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka confirmed the incident. 5. The operatives of the Imo State Police Command have arrested six members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) over the death of a police sergeant. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Orlando Ikeokwu, said that one AK47 rifle, four locally made guns and large quantities of marijuana, were recovered from them. 6. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has announced new dates for its 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). JAMB Registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, said the UTME examination, which was hitherto fixed for June 5 to 19, 2021, will now commence on July 19 and run till July 3, 2021. 7. Following the growing insecurity in the country, the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing has said that the United Kingdom (UK) is partnering with Nigeria in military-to-military training and other areas. The Commissioner spoke in Abuja yesterday. 8. Bauchi State Governor, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Saturday took the second dose of the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine at the Government House to flag off the second round of the vaccination in the state. 9. A serving Superintendent of Customs, Mba Ukweni Edu was reportedly kidnapped at a river in Cross River State yesterday. A close relation, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mba Ukweni confirmed the incident. 10. A month after a military base in Allawi and Bassa communities in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State was attacked by armed bandits, soldiers, yesterday, returned to their camps where five soldiers and a mobile policeman were killed.