Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President has advised governors from all states to come together and address issues facing the nation as a national challenge not with a regional mindset. Atiku in a series of tweets on Sunday said although he understands the necessity of meetings and decisions made by governors, it is, however, not the best solution. His tweets read: “Governors representing some states have met. And I completely understand the necessity of their meeting and the wisdom of their decisions. But no matter how much you try to clap with one hand, the vibrations will not be the same as when you clap with two hands. “ We have a national challenge. And as Albert Einstein said, “We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them.” “These problems were created by those with a regional mindset, and will not be solved by those with a similar mindset. “For too long, we have erroneously thought that the power to make effective changes lies at Aso Rock. But without the states, nobody can get to Aso Rock.” Atiku advised Governors to stop waiting for changes from Aso rock and convene a national summit to address all issues while respecting tribes and religion. “Let us apply this wisdom to our present challenges on Nigerian Governors to stop waiting on Abuja to make changes, and instead convene a National Unity Summit of all Nigerian Governors to iron out the thorny issues affecting the destiny of our nation until they figure out a way to resolve them. “ Forget about your party. Forget about your tribe. Respect your religion and allow it to bring out the better part of you. Meet together. Talk together. Come up with the solutions to all our collective challenges. And then go back to your states, and consult with your federal and state legislators, with a view to getting them to work with their colleagues to implement the solutions you came up with that is how to save Nigeria. “To keep waiting for this Federal Government to take the lead, and effect the changes that Nigeria needs to stop drifting, is to keep waiting for Godot. And that is a luxury we cannot afford. “ Atiku warned that if governors do not act together, then “the alternative is that we fall asunder and God forbid that should ever be our fate.”