A chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Kaduna North Local Government Area of Kaduna State, Alhaji Yusuf Idris Amoke, has called on the ruling party to stick to the tradition of democracy and not take them back to the old days on the basis which they fought the PDP for the future of democracy and development of the country. Speaking to newsmen in Kaduna on the purported primary election for the chairmanship in Kaduna North local government, Alhaji Yusuf Idris Amoke, completely condemned the process adopted by the party in the primary election in the local government. He observed that if not rectified, it would be detrimental to the future of the party in the area. The chairmanship aspirant lamented that prior to the conduct of the chairmanship primary election in the area, there hasn’t been any formal communication to him on the modalities to be adopted towards ensuring a successful chairmanship primary election in the area. He complained, “The process started with the buying of forms of intent and all other processes up to the screening. Since after the screening, there hasn’t been any official communication with all the aspirants on the next steps to go as laid down by the party to the primary election. “There was no communication of the conduct of the primary election and its rescheduled primary election between himself and the party but only got information from the social media and here say which is not healthy for the party and the process to the primary election. “We did not actually know about the rescheduled date of the primary election, the mode of the election whether it is going to be a direct or indirect primary election. There was no official communication. “We didn’t know whether polling units were going to be used or not. We didn’t know the location of the centres to be used for the election. We didn’t know whether voters would stand behind each aspirant because there was no communication of what was to be done.” He explained that a day to the election, he wrote a formal letter to the party and copied all stakeholders including all security agencies in the state on the development in the party. He further lamented that on the purported election day, he delegated some of his members to the distribution centres but discovered that there were result sheets in all the 12 wards of the local government where agents and other stakeholders will sign to certify the result of the election. North Central will contest for APC National Chairmanship position – Niger Gov 