Orji Uzor Kalu, the Nigerian Senate Chief Whip and former Governor of Abia State has reacted to the defection of the Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade from the Peoples Democratic Party to the governing All Progressive Congress (APC). DAILY POST reported that Governor Ben Ayade formally declared for the ruling party at the Cross River State Executive Council Chamber in Calabar after a two-hour meeting with seven APC governors led by the party’s interim chairman and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Speaking on why he joined the APC, Governor Ben Ayade highlighted the character attributes of President Muhammadu Buhari and the realisation that Cross River, which has been emasculated economically following the ceding of its oil wells, needed to be in sync with the party at the centre, as the major reasons for moving. “Having seen and known the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and his commitment to this country, his nationalistic disposition and all the efforts he has made to bring Nigeria to where we are today, it is obvious that at this point, we needed to join hands with him to build a Nigeria that we can be proud of”. However, Senator Orji Kalu, in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Friday, commended Ayade for taking a bold and courageous step in a bid to strengthen his good deeds in Cross Rivers State. He posited that APC is a party for progressive-minded politicians with a passion for sustainable development. According to the Abia North Senator, “I commend the decision of Governor Ben Ayade of Cross-Rivers state to join the APC from the PDP, it is no doubt a laudable development. “With the support of the federal government, the Governor has over the years, sustained his good works across Cross- Rivers state. “It is a good opportunity for the people of Cross-Rivers state to connect with the centre. “I join the national leadership of the APC in welcoming Ayade into the fold of our great party, “Senator Kalu concluded. Defection: Ayade says more Govs will dump PDP soon, lists those to join him in APC 