The Senate Chief Whip and Representative of Abia North Senatorial District, Orji Uzor Kalu has called for a thorough probe into circumstances that led to the crash of a military plane that killed the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru and ten other officers. Kalu said his call was to ensure that there is no recurrence of such accidents in the future. His call follows the Federal Government’s announcement that it intends to follow through with every lead on the cause of the accident. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika had said the investigation would be carried out in collaboration with the military. Kalu, a former Governor of Abia State in a statement on Sunday, also called on appropriate authorities to honour the departed soldiers for their patriotic service to the nation. He extolled the virtues of the late General Ibrahima Attahiru who according to him, had over the years, demonstrated patriotism and professionalism in the discharge of his responsibilities. DAILY POST reported that the Army Chief, Ibrahim Attahiru died when a military aircraft he was travelling in crashed at about 6:00 pm on Friday, around the Kaduna International Airport, claiming also the lives of his aides and other senior army officers. The top military officer was in Kaduna on an official trip. The Senate Chief Whip in the statement, extended his heartfelt condolences to the families of the military officers who lost their lives, praying to God Almighty to grant the departed souls eternal rest. Parts of the statement read, “On behalf of the people of Abia North Senatorial district, I sympathize with the Nigerian Armed Forces over the huge loss of its personnel in the air crash. “The loss of lives of committed and patriotic personnel of the Nigerian armed forces is shocking and devastating. “Our thoughts and prayers are with families of the military officers. May their souls rest in peace”. Also reacting to the military plane crash in Kaduna, the Member representing Aba South constituency in the Abia State House of Assembly, Hon Obinna Ichita, on Sunday, called for immediate review of the nation’s aviation safety policies to forestall a reoccurrence. The Abia legislator also urged the government to review its aviation safety protocols, saying “we need our skies and our lands to be safe”. Orji Kalu links prison term to 2023 presidency 