To celebrate key distribution partners and appreciate customer loyalty, Monument Distillers, producers and distributors of premium alcoholic beverages, has rewarded its top volume customers for each performance in 2020 by rewarding them with gifts to the tune of N250 million. Fifteen distributors who demonstrated commitment to partnership, business excellence, growth and the profitability of Monument Distillers were rewarded at a special Appreciation Ceremony with 13 distribution trucks, a brand-new saloon car, a fresh-minted SUV and an all-expense-paid trip to South Africa. While lauding the efforts of key distributors for ensuring Monument Distillers range of premium spirits remains the toast of the country, Godwin Oche, Chief Executive of the Nigerian company, explained: “Monument Distillers is proud of the top calibre and unrelenting dedication of our distribution partners. We are truly grateful for your dedication to the business and to our customers across the country. This award ceremony is one our channels for honouring and rewarding your unwavering support, particularly through the unique challenges of last year.” Commenting further, Abiodun Ajiborode, Marketing Director of the company, explained that “The exponential growth that we have seen with our brands over the last few years could not have happened without the amazing support of our distribution partners, and of course our customers. Monument Distillers will continue to give back in every way possible.” Monument Distillers continue to offer premium drinks of the finest quality made with exceptional craftmanship. About Monument Distillers Nigeria Monument Distillers, subsidiary of Kensington Distillers & Vintners (KDV), is producer and distributor of premium beverage brands made with exceptional craftsmanship, including Bannermans Whisky, 1960 Rootz bitters, Four Horses bitters, Sazerac, Southern Comfort, Popov Vodka, Myers Rum, Firewater, Buffalo Trace Bourbon and Four Cousins Wines. For more information, visit www.kensingtondistillers.co.uk.