The wife of Enugu State Governor, Mrs. Monica Ugochi Ugwuanyi, has tasked mothers to always ensure they take proper record of their children’s immunization, for effective administration of vaccines on them for healthy living. Mrs. Ugwuanyi gave the advice during the flag off of the 2021 Maternal, New Born and Child Health Week (MNCHW) and Modified Integrated Medical Outreach Programme (MIMOP), held on Monday, at Uwani Health Centre, Enugu South Local Government Area of the state. The Enugu First Lady noted that some mothers do forget the scheduled date for immunization of their children, stressing that proper record keeping is essential and a sure way to effectively immunize the kids. “One advice I want to give is this; let’s have a small bag where you keep your children’s cards. You will also put in the bag everything concerning the child that you need in the hospital so that even when you are not there, the person taking the child to the hospital can pick the bag and present the necessary records for urgent medical attention. “Immediately you get to the hospital, you give them the card so that they know the child’s immunization history, because they will ask questions, such as how many immunizations he or she has taken, among others. So let’s try to update our children’s immunization card”. Reiterating her call for strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, Mrs. Ugwuanyi urged residents of Enugu State to continue to wear their facemasks, wash their hands with soap and running water, maintain social distancing, among other precautionary measures. In his speech, the State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Ikechukwu Obi, who expressed delight at the state government’s commitment to MNCHW, said the programme offers great opportunity for women and children to have access to unique healthcare services at the primary level. The Health Commissioner advised fathers to mobilize their wives to take advantage of the one week programme to access quality healthcare services “that will enable them to breed healthy children that can take after us”. He commended Mrs. Ugwuanyi’s pet project, Ugo’s Touch of Life Foundation (U-TOLF) for facilitating the receipt of vaccines and other medicines for the immunization. Also speaking, the Executive Secretary of Enugu State Primary Health Care Development Agency (ENS-PHCDA), Dr. George Ugwu, disclosed that the administration of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is focusing special attention on primary healthcare services across the state. Dr. Ugwu pointed out that “Our healthcare-friendly Governor of Enugu State, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has given the agency the mandate to work hard and ensure that the healthcare development services for the rural and ordinary citizens of this state are improved”. The Executive Secretary highlighted that the Ugwuanyi administration has been providing critical infrastructure, constructing and renovating health centres, stressing that “it is only in Enugu State that you talk about Type 3 Primary Healthcare Centre, a special primary healthcare centre that is above the expected level”. His words: “Apart from these infrastructural developments, our governor is also concentrating in ensuring that our women and children are getting the services they deserve; the services that prevent them from falling sick by providing them with immunization and nutritional services, family planning and all other things women and children need”. In their goodwill messages, the Chairman of Enugu South LGA, Hon. Monday Eneh, represented by his deputy, Hon. Sandra Onyia, the Chairman of Enugu State Traditional Rulers’ Council, HRH Igwe Amb. Lawrence Agubuzu, representative of National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Ogechi Akalonu, the UNICEF representative, Dr. Nwakaego Ibekwe, and others, applauded Gov. Ugwuanyi and his wife, Monica for their passion and outstanding contributions towards quality and affordable healthcare service delivery across the state in spite of the nation’s economic, security and public health challenges. They maintained that flag off of the immunization programme was among the concerted efforts of the state government to effectively guarantee the health and wellbeing of mothers and children in Enugu State. The stakeholders therefore enjoined mothers in every part of the state to avail themselves of this one-week opportunity by immunizing their children. Other dignitaries at the event include the Executive Secretary, Enugu State Agency for Controls of AIDS (ENSACA), Dr. Arthur Idoko and the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Ifeanyi Agujiobi. COVID-19: Niger has 38,940 of vaccine doses left – Immunization Officer 