Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), has alleged that the police and soldiers are sabotaging the genuine efforts of the Imo State Government in combating crimes in the state. The group said the deliberate hostility, wanton arrest, brutality and killing of innocent citizens in the state has sent a wrong signal to Imo citizens over the current administration in the state. The Igboayaka O. Igboayaka-led Ohanaeze Youth Council (OYC), in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Sunday, posited that the activities of the Nigeria Police Force and Army in Imo have raised much fear among the people, tasking Governor Hope Uzodinma to look deep and examine the activities of police and soldiers in the state. The highest Igbo socio-cultural youth body urged Uzodinma to set up an independent inquiry to ascertain the exact cause of the death of some Imolites, starting from Divine Nwaneri, who was allegedly killed at Government House junction, and Mr. Noel Chigbu, killed at Amakohia Flyover in Owerri, the state capital. According to OYC in the statement, “We are rapidly moving into a societal decay where armed gangs are celebrated while security agents are despised, therefore Gov. Hope Uzodinma should organize a security Retreat and training of security agents working in Imo state. “The administration of Senator Hope Uzodinma must design operational principle and job prescription as the Chief Security Officer of Imo State to the Security Agents or they will drag his government into mud and mass resistance. “There is so much crying for Justice in Imo State. Many have been left as an orphan, widow and widower masterminded by Nigeria Police and Army. There is secret abduction of Igbo youths in their houses and workshops in Imo State. “There’s so much tension in Imo state due to how the Army and police react at the scene of crime, they (police and army) attack more innocent Imolites, while they allow the armed gang to flee, this is very suspicious. “Recently towards the Students hostels around Owerri Club Innocent students were arrested, at Amakohia, MCC road, Naze Ogbo Osisi, innocent youths were brutally beaten and arrested. At Bank road Owerri, military men shot one Mr. Okey Okoroha and two Others in their car, leaving two persons wounded,” it concluded. In the same vein, the Imo State Police Command has confirmed that Ahmed Gulak, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was killed by bandits. SP Bala Elkana, the Police Public Relations Officer, said Gulak was killed by the armed bandits who intercepted his vehicle on his way to the airport on Sunday. DAILY POST reports that Nigeria intelligence community had linked the assassination of former political adviser to ex-Presidentoodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak, to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The proscribed secessionist group, led by Nnamdi Kanu, now has a militant wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN).