Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday said Nigeria must work out the modalities to force down the cost of governance. The VP was the keynote speaker at the Rauf Aregbesola Colloquium, an annual event to commemorate the former Osun Governor’s birthday. In his speech on the theme: “Government and Big Development: Realities and Solutions for Nigeria”, Osinbajo noted that the collapse of socialism in the 90s gave rise to the notion that a market-driven economy works better. He said following the failure of the Social Adjustment Programme, the World Bank put poverty reduction at the centre of its programmes. The vice president stressed the importance of social investment programmes in countries like Nigeria with a high level of poverty. Osinbajo said the nation’s debt burden must be viewed in terms of the impact it has on development. “We should not be trapped into thinking that cost of government is the problem only. We must ensure that we have the right quality of skill in public service as a balance”, he added while advocating private sector participation. Kaduna Governor Nasir el-Rufai said state governments ought not to pay salaries that are above their tax revenues. He urged national and state authorities to cut expenses and increase income, lamenting that nearly all federal revenues go to debt servicing. “We cannot leave fiscal challenges to chance. I don’t think you should have a government larger than the taxes you can raise. “Each state needs to set its minimum wage because the cost of living is different. Let us use our oil revenue for capital expenditure and pay salaries through taxes. “We have an over-bloated public service. Our government has to cut the cost of governance to have a fighting chance.” He insisted that what mattered is not the number of civil servants, saying “No country can perform better than the quality of its public service.” Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabba in his contribution, pointed out the nexus between insecurity and lack of employment in Nigeria. He said the development policy in the country should be centred on the people with fairness, justice and respect for the rule of law. Wabba advised political office holders to cut the cost of governance and insisted that “the minimum wage has a global standard” which must not drop. Other panellists include the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) CEO, Yemi Kale, who explained that development is a process for which data is important. Data, according to him, is important in measuring development. Most problems cannot be solved without looking at data. “You can measure the effectiveness of a policy by looking at data. Using data, targets can be set to get to the next level of a development strategy”, Kale explained. The celebrant and Interior Minister, Aregbesola thanked the participants for making contributions that made the discussion robust. “We must focus on mobilising most of our people to work. This is the way out of the quagmire we find ourselves. If we get our people to work, definitely we will be rich”, he posited. Strike: El-Rufai’s abuse of power must be checked in Kaduna – NLC’s Wabba 