The Chief Imam of Offa, Fadilatu Sheikh Muyideen Salman, has called for prayers for the nation, amid the ongoing unrest.  According to the cleric, at this period that Nigeria is going through myriads of problems, prayers remain the only way out. The made this call on Sunday during a Ramadan Lecture organised by Abuja-based real estate firm, T Pumpy Concept LTD for her Muslim staff, residents and subscribers. Speaking during the well attended lecture, the respected Islamic cleric said Nigerians should not give up on the country.  Explaining why he organised the lecture, the MD/CEO of T Pumpy Concept LTD Mr. Adaralegde Akintayo, said the company used the occasion to reach out to Muslim residents and subscribers of the estate as they approach the end their fast. “This is not the first time we are organising a similar event. During Christmas and Easter, we as well reached out to Christian faithful. Just like the Imam rightly said, Nigeria at this critical time needs more prayers.  While wishing Muslim faithful happy Eid al-Fitr, Mr. Adaralegbe, called on Nigerians not to give up on the nation, adding that Nigerians will come out strong of her challenges. Meanwhile, 40% slash promo by the real estate firm is still on.  Mr. Adaralegbe, who announced the promo in April, said the ongoing promo is available for T Pumpy Estates across Abuja such as Guzape, Lugbe, Kpyegi/Jikwoyi, Kurudu, Katampe, Kuje, among others. He said any realtor who brings a buyer is entitled to 10 per cent commission while anyone who brings ten buyers is entitled to a government-approved plot of land within the nation’s capital  According to him, “In Lugbe, 300sqm tagged Diamond is going for N1.4m as against the N4m market value while the Platinum package, 600sqm is going for N2.7m as against the N4.5m market value. In category two, Diamond is going for N1.2m while Platinum would be sold for N2.4m.  In Jikwoyi/Kpeyegyi, Diamond (300sqm) is going for N540 while the Platinum (600sqm) would go for N900,000. “We decided to slash the price as part of our efforts to make housing affordable for every Nigerian and to complement government’s efforts in housing delivery. “We want to see a nation where at least, 60 per cent of her citizens are house owners.  “This is also an employment opportunity for people out there, especially the youths. Bring a buyer and get 10 per cent commission and if you can bring 10 buyers, you will be given a plot of land. “Most of our lands have C-of-Os. They are authentic, verifiable and government-approved,” Mr. Adaralegbe assured.  T. Pumpy Concept LTD, is one of the leading estate developers in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, with no fewer than 28 estates units spread across the Federal Capital City and is ensuring that thousands of Nigerian/ residents have access to houses of their own.  Call us today: Corporate Head Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja. NYANYA OFFICE: Urban Plaza, Opposite First Bank Nyanya KUJE OFFICE: Suite 13-15 Spall Mall Plaza, (By Tipper Garage) Kuchiako Kuje.  LUGBE OFFICE: House 37,1 (F) Road Besides RCCG, Resurrection Parish FHA Lugbe. Follow us on our social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380