A political group, the Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), has urged President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government to declare the insecurity in the country a national emergency. The Coalition said the current political atmosphere has gone beyond parochialism hence the need to refocus Nigeria on the path of progress through a purposeful leadership that traverse beyond the boundaries of partisan politics. The PDP Coalition gave the advice in a statement signed by its National Coordinator, Chief Emeka Kalu and made available to DAILY POST. The statement outlined solutions to quell insecurity and successionist agitations across the country. The group charged the governments to embark on genuine public enlightenment, education empowerment, creation of job opportunities and as well as drawing a national development plan, which would require the three tiers of government running developmental projects in key sectors of the national life. The Coalition said, “the truth from history is that every case of insecurity, no matter how complex it would seem, has an answer once there is a political will. How do we then solve our challenge of insecurity? “The first is to admit that the situation is bad and to have the federal government declare it a national emergency. That way it becomes a national problem and not the challenge of the political party in power. The Challenge of insecurity, especially when it involves lives is beyond partisan politics. So, declaring a national emergency would go a long way to change narratives and dispositions”. “Another approach to end insecurity is education. Nearly 60 years after independence, we are still producing educated people and not trained manpower. It is time we know that education without skill is a disservice of the highest order. There is a need to change our curriculum and restructure our institutions of learning, beginning even from primary schools. We must help educate and train our youths. I don’t want to talk about political restructuring even though I find so much sense in it. I also don’t want to talk about the police institution even though I know that the police’s main problem is not about numbers or remunerations”. Nigeria is currently being ravaged occasioned by the menaces of Boko Haram terrorists, killer herdsmen, kidnappers, bandits and unknown gunmen which has remained unabated and as have led to wanton destruction of lives and property in many parts of the country. Insecurity: Secure Nigerians’ lives or resign – Coalition tells Buhari 