The Nigerian military and the Police, Thursday night, eliminated a number of the Eastern Security Network (ESN) fighters, a militia formed by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) led by Nnamdi Kanu. The gunmen were travelling to Orlu town in a convoy of vehicles, including the ones they hijacked from residents. Their mission was allegedly to attack some police stations. It was gathered that the IPOB secessionists sent a notice to their members and the ESN to prepare for an assault on security facilities. A video showed how the gunmen opened fire at a location, an individual behind the camera was heard complaining about the attack on innocent citizens. Security forces got wind of the situation and chased the motorcade. Part of the contingent had laid an ambush for the hoodlums ahead. On sighting the IPOB members, policemen and soldiers reportedly opened fire, leaving the gunmen little time to return fire. DAILY POST reports that pictures showing corpses, guns, ammunition, charms, among others is being circulated and was sighted. After the operation, the bodies of the IPOB members recovered vehicles and sophisticated weapons were taken to the Police Command in Owerri, the state capital. An intelligence officer told PRNigeria that some of the gunmen were involved in previous attacks on government facilities in Imo. He disclosed that after their communication was intercepted, the troops staged mapped out coordinates and planned the offensive. “The gunmen, who believed in the power of their charms, were overpowered when the troops including soldiers, policemen and other security operatives engaged them in a battle. “While some of them were killed, others escaped with grievous injury from the exchange of gunfire. We also recovered all the stolen vehicles they used for their operations. “In the last one month, the gunmen have attacked several police stations and killed dozens of security personnel for no reason.” The officer said the assailants were identified as members of IPOB from their ID cards and other incriminating items recovered. The source recalled that the ESN used machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades when they damaged the Imo prison, police headquarters, freed the inmates, and looted armouries. Video: 