Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance (CAGG) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari on the appointment of a new Chief of Army Staff. Following the death and burial of Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, President Buhari is expected to announce his replacement soon. Attahiru and ten senior officers, who died in a plane crash in Kaduna State on Friday, were laid to rest at the National Military Cemetery, Abuja, on Saturday “The fight against terror must be sustained. There is no doubt that the death of Attahiru will adversely affect the war against the insurgents, but that should not discourage Nigerians,” Bamgbose told DAILY POST on Sunday. “However extreme caution should be taken before the appointment of the next Chief of Army Staff. “This is one appointment that should not hurriedly be done given the suspicious death of the late Chief of Army Staff. It is most likely that there are forces that should not be underrated. “President Buhari should be very careful, as the wrong choice of the Chief of Army Staff may worsen insecurity in Nigeria. “Ordinarily one may not oppose the emergence of a Northerner as the new Chief of Army Staff, but the right person should be considered to avert danger. “Attahiru’s successor must be thoroughly screened and scrutinized before he is given the appointment. “This is one appointment that Buhari must be personally involved in because of his safety as President. “Leaving it for a body or group of individuals could be dangerous and devastating to his safety and administration. Extreme caution is the keyword.” Meanwhile, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, AYCF, has rubbished calls for Buhari to pick his next Chief of Army Staff, from the Southeast. Speaking with DAILY POST on Sunday, AYCF, National President, Yerima Shettima downplayed the possibility of the next COAS coming from the Southeast due to what he termed “nonsense” coming from the region. Insecurity: Civil war may break out in Nigeria – Bamgbose warns Buhari 