Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Presidency yesterday, dissociated President Muhammadu Buhari from Gimba Yau Kumo, who was recently declared wanted by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), in connection with a $56 million fraud. In a statement issued by Buhari’s spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, the Presidency said Kumo was not Buhari’s in-law. 2. Bayelsa State Government on Friday, imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in the state from 8pm to 6am daily as part of measures to prevent the spread of the surging trait of the new variants of COVID-19. The Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Mr Ayibaina Duba stated this yesterday. 3. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday confirmed that its office in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State, has been razed by hoodlums. This was contained in a statement by INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye. 4. The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said there was no record of the Indian COVID-19 variant in Edo State as being speculated on social media. The governor spoke yesterday at a press conference to provide an update on the state’s COVID-19 response. 5. The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, has called for urgent steps to stop Nigeria’s rapid population growth rate at 3.2 per cent per annum. The Minister spoke at a one-day progress update meeting of Women Integrated Services for Health (WISH) in Abuja yesterday. 6. A police officer in Kano, Sergeant Kabiru Isah, attached to the Command’s Motor Traffic Division (MTD), has returned the sum of N1,294,200.00 found at a scene of a fatal accident. The state Commissioner of Police, CP Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko, made this known while handing over the money to the relatives. 7. Following intensified insurgency attacks across the country, particularly in the North, the Nigerian Army has recalled a large number of its personnel studying in civil institutions (universities and polytechnics) across the country.
This was contained in a leaked memo by the Nigerian Army Headquarters, Department of Army Training, Abuja. 8. A middle-aged man has been arrested by the police in Bauchi State for allegedly killing his girlfriend and their baby and dumping their corpses inside sewage. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Ahmed Wakil, said this in a statement on Friday. 9. The Kaduna State Government on Friday confirmed that the air component of Operation Thunder Strike conducted a series of aerial missions across several locations in Kaduna State leading to the death of many bandits. This was confirmed in a statement by Mr Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs. 10. The Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, yesterday, promised not to disappoint Nigerians asking him to run for the 2023 presidency.