The Pioneer National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Anietie Okon, has said the crop of current senators lacked the capacity to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari amidst glaring security threats, economic crisis and general misgovernance. The former senator from Akwa Ibom, who disclosed this in an interaction with journalists in Uyo on Wednesday, alleged that apart from Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe of Abia State and few others of the minority in the Senate, others are just, “Yes men.” He also tackled the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, for saying that southern governors as elected officials should not push for restructuring of Nigeria, stressing, ‘people should encourage them rather than talk rubbish.’ He said, “The decisions the southern governors took during their meeting in Delta State was in the interest of the country. It was also based on the urgency of the situation in their regions, states and responsibility to their citizens.” Okon also regretted that Nigeria has suffered several recessions since the president came into office in 2015 and wondered why Nigerians were only interested in the 2023 elections rather than focus on turning around the economy His words, “Since this man (Buhari) came into office it has been one season of recession after another as a result of misgovernance, ineptitude and the lack of basic understanding of the national economics. The economy of the country has come to a halt. “There has not been any economic growth indicator for Nigeria since this administration came into office. That is why we are experiencing a very high rate of unemployment, and increased government borrowing. The president does not have the capacity and competence to lead Nigeria. “It is a disgrace and an awful one for that matter that a country so gifted by God in terms of human capacity and natural resources is still floundering when we should be in the same class with countries like Korea, Japan. It is painful. “And you will see many Nigerians will be suffering from hypertension very soon because the current government has no answer to the security challenges bedevilling the country. These days when people go to sleep they keep an eye open added to the fact that the government of the day has dragged the economy down.” The Former Senator stressed that the President should have been impeached long ago due to incompetence He also frowned at repeated calls on the President to address the country on what he is doing regarding the myriads of disturbing challenges especially insecurity when Nigerians were not expecting much from him. “And I think some people are over flogging the issue of asking that the President should address the country on the security situation. What is he going to say? “During the End SARS protest when they also insisted that he should address the citizens, when he did, didn’t the situation become even worse?”, “Regrettably, the current Senators do not have the stomach for the impeachment of the president. Except Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe and few others of the minority in the Senate, others are just ‘Yes men.” On what could be done to salvage Nigeria, Okon simply responded, “I have said this repeatedly that it is either a break up/ dismemberment. And we must save this country before we start looking at 2023.” Monarch released by kidnappers after N700, 000 ransom, accuses subjects of abandonment 