Former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba has said he was traumatised by his successors for 16 years after he left office in 2003. DAILY POST reports that Osoba was succeeded by Otunba Gbenga, who was also succeeded in 2011 by Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Speaking in Abeokuta on Tuesday, Osoba narrated his 16 years post-government experience in the hands of his successors, describing it as “traumatic.” Osoba said he harassed and declared persona non grata by the successive Otunba Gbenga Daniel, under who he said he could not visit Ogun State, let alone visiting the governor’s office in Okemosan. He added that the Amosun tenure from 2011 to 2019 was problematic for him. Osoba spoke on Tuesday narrated his experience during the commissioning of a press centre built in the premises of the Governor’s Office in Okemosan, Abeokuta and named ‘Olusegun Osoba Press Centre.’ He told the gathering of prominent journalists, top government functionaries and politicians that the occasion made him returned to the seat of power after about 16 years he left government. Then All Progressives Congress leader said he was returning to the governor’s office for the first time since he left 18 years ago. “When I left office, I was so harassed to the point that all the plaques and the symbols of all the projects I did were the first to be removed throughout the state. “The first 16 years of my leaving this office have been very, very traumatic. I never came back, I became a snake that doesn’t go back to where it has turned over its skin. This premises (Governor’s office) became no go area for me. To imagine that in my life my return to this premises will be this glorious is something of emotion. “The first eight years, I was virtually declared persona non grata in Ogun state, well that is settled, those involved have come to apologise. Niran Molaolu was the first to come and apologise. “My name was sent to EFCC so many times. The EFCC investigated and investigated because everything was documented in files , they found nothing. “I couldn’t come to Abeokuta not to talk of visiting the office of the Governor. The other eight years, that one also became problematic,” he said. Osoba who expressed his joy for coming back to the Oke-Mosan Governor’s office after 16 years of leaving office, said “Mr. Governor, you will not know how many hours you have added to my life with this action today. It maybe hours, it maybe weeks, days, it maybe years, but you have added something very great to my life today.” In his remarks, Abiodun paid glowing tributes to Osoba, saying the centre was meant to immortalise him. He described Osoba as distinguished nationalist, statesman, achiever and a legendary penpusher whose brand of journalism should be emulated by the younger generation. The governor added that the centre would accord journalists the opportunity to write their stories and do their jobs conveniently. Ogun APC: Former Speaker, Bankole meets Abiodun, Osoba [PHOTOS] 