There is heavy tension in Cross River State over the clash between two communities in Odukpani Local Government Area of the state. DAILY POST gathered that the clash which started around 1am on Wednesday, left unspecified number of people dead while property worth millions of naira were destroyed. The clash ensued between the people of Ikot Offiong and Akpap Okoyong community in Odukpani Local Government Area of Cross River. A villager, who declined giving his name, lamented the level of destruction and killing, noting that the crisis started when Ikot Offiong people attacked the Okoyong people. Okoyong people are currently harbouring the people of Ikot Offiong due to their crisis with the Oku Iboku people of Itu Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State that has left many displaced. The villager said, “Ikot Offiong people have been living in our community for a while following the continuous fighting between them and the people of Itu in Akwa Ibom State. “We didn’t know they were planning evil. Today, at about 1am, the Ikot people started attacking Akpao Okoyong natives, burning houses and maiming people. “No one knows their secret agenda but some information at my disposal is that they have been planning this for a while “They have killed a lot of people while sleeping in their houses. We need the government’s intervention. “It should be noted that since their expulsion from Oku Iboku, the Okoyong people had been their shelter for almost 21 years,” the eyewitness said. When contacted, Mr Akiba Ekpenyong, Chief Press Secretary to Hon. (Mrs) Justina Edem, Chairman of Odukpani Local Government Area told newsmen that security forces have been mobilised to quell the crisis. “The Chairman had a meeting with the Deputy Governor, Prof. Ivara Esu yesterday concerning the security challenges and the councillors of both wards (Ikot Offiong and Akpap Okoyong) were present. “Many deliberations were made and a communique was raised. We still don’t understand why the crisis erupted. “As I am talking to you, the Chairman has mobilised security personnel including Operation Akpakwu to bring calm to the community,” Akiba Ekpenyong said. Gunmen burn down police station, kill two officers in Akwa Ibom 