A former Governor of Oyo State, Senator Rasidi Adewolu Ladoja, has told herdsmen that open grazing is no more sustainable in the country. Ladoja, who is the Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland, insisted that open grazing, which has resulted in loss of many lives in different parts of the country due to clashes between farmers and herdsmen, is no more fashionable because it has outlived its relevance. He advised herdsmen, cattle breeders and anyone interested in rearing cattle to find sustainable businesses to do as it is glaring that open grazing is no more sustainable. The former governor said this while hosting some personalities, among whom were Senator Teslim Folarin (Oyo Central); former Secretary to Oyo State Government and Ekefa Balogun of Ibadan land, Barrister Sharafaden Alli; and Ajia Balogun of Ibadanland, Chief Taofeek Adegboyega Adegoke. DAILY POST reports that the dignitaries were at Ladoja’s Bodija, Ibadan, residence to felicitate with him over the completion of the Ramadan fast. Ladoja, while addressing journalists, said that some states had passed anti-open grazing laws, but the governors in those states are not enforcing the laws. Speaking further, he commended governors from the Southern part of the country who recently pronounced eradication of open grazing. Ladoja said, “All of us know that open grazing is not sustainable. “So, we have to find a way of looking for sustainable things. If you look at it, fifty years ago, how many people did we have and how many people do we have now.? It has increased. How many cattle did we have then and how many do we have now? It has increased. “There are some countries that have more cattle than us and they are not practicing open grazing because it is not sustainable. “The laws ars there, I support the southern governors for speaking against open grazing. There are some states that have passed the law but they are not implementing it. “There is anti-open grazing law in Oyo State, but it is not being implemented. I believe that after the pronouncement by the southern governors, they will implement the law. “If they kill some farmers today, other farmers will be afraid to go to the farm. It is wrong for one tribe to dominate us. We are not in a unitary system. “These are some of the reasons why some people are agitating for secession and revolution.” ‘I’ve had two abortions’ – Former Oyo governor, Rashidi Ladoja’s daughter reveals 