The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Enugu State, Dr. Ben Nwoye has urged for calm amid protest by some members over a stakeholders’ meeting convened by former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani. DAILY POST learnt that Nnamani summoned a stakeholders meeting scheduled to hold on March 31, 2021. However, a group within the party, known as APC Leaders’ Forum, has kicked against the meeting. They asked leaders of the party in Enugu State to jettison any action capable of jeopardizing the relative peace that the party currently enjoys, especially those actions that are diametrical to the party’s Constitution. Their stand was signed by Prof. Ekwe Xistus, who feared that more troubles were looming for the party if the leaders did not refrain from calling unconstitutional meetings with resolutions that are tantamount to nullity. But speaking on the development, Nwoye told journalists that Nnamani as the leader of the party in the Southeast could call for stakeholders’ meeting in any of the States in the zone. He urged for calm and the use of dialogue to resolve issues, noting that the party cannot afford another round of crisis in the State. “I am some what dissapointed that the group went to the media, whatever the issue, they should have reached out to our leader, Chief Ken Nnamani. They ought to know better that dialogue remains the best way to resolve issues than being confrontational. “Let’s not add to the self-inflicted injury we are still recovering from. In 2017, disharmony paved the way for APC in Enugu State to be denied entrance at the national convention. “Chief Ken Nnamani, who is the leader of the party in the Southeast has the right to call stakeholders meeting be it in Ebonyi, Abia, Imo, Anambra and Enugu States, so it is not anything to worry about,” Nwoye said. He added that if the Forum felt excluded, they should “reach out to Chief Ken Nnamani, he is accessible. He will listen to them. So, I plead with them to be calm.” “I call for peace, everyone should support peace, don’t support Ben Nwoye, support APC, a party that can win election, support unity of APC, support unity of purpose,” he advised. Insecurity in Nigeria: State Police not solution – Sen. Nnamani 