Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Presidency on Friday released “a fact sheet” on the six years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, stressing that he has recorded giant strides that critics have failed to acknowledge. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina. 2. Supreme Court on Friday struck out the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, against the outcome of the September 19, 2020 governorship election, which returned Mr. Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as Governor of Edo State, for lacking in merit. 3. The police in Imo State have warned members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and hoodlums in the state, accusing them of threatening the peace in the State following a sit-at-home order declared for all the states in the South East for May 31, 2021. This was contained in a statement by the State Police spokesperson, Bala Elkana. 4. A coalition of Niger Delta groups yesterday threatened to carry out an unfriendly mass action against the Federal Government over its alleged plans to increase fuel price from the current price of N162 to N385 per litre. President of Ogoni Liberation Initiative (OLI), Dr Douglas Fabeke, stated this on behalf of the group while addressing journalists in Abuja. 5. Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen on Friday morning, again attacked Gwer West and Katsina-Ala Local Government Areas of Benue State, killing about 36 people and abducting many others. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Anene confirmed the attack. 6. At least five soldiers were reportedly shot dead yesterday along Wetheral Road, Owerri in Imo State as unknown gunmen attacked the area. An eyewitness revealed that the assailants ambushed the soldiers and opened fire on them. 7. The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, yesterday, dissolved the State Executive Council with immediate effect. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Kenneth Ugbala, announced the dissolution after the council’s meeting on Friday in Abakaliki. 8. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to use the May 29 speech to accept his failure in governance and desist from further exasperating Nigerians with his usual prepared text of false performance claims and empty promises. Spokesman of the Party, Kola Ologbondiyan spoke yesterday. 9. Chairman of EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, yesterday disclosed that the N14.46 billion jewellery and other properties recovered from a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison Madueke during the former President Goodluck Jonathan administration are still with the commission. 10. The president of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, yesterday, revealed that the union lost 30 members to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ogunyemi disclosed this during the 21st National Delegates Conference of the union on Friday at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State. Nigerian Newspapers: 10 things you need to know this Thursday morning 