Tony Mount, the father of Chelsea midfielder, Mason Mount, has disagreed with the club’s boss, Thomas Tuchel’s decision to make seven changes for Chelsea’s defeat to Arsenal this week. Chelsea was beaten 1-0 by Arsenal at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday, a major setback in their top-four pursuit. The German tactician made seven changes from the side which ran out 2-1 winners over Manchester City last Saturday, a decision he regretted afterwards. Tony Mount, however, wondered why the manager changed a winning team, advising the German to always stick with the same team which knocked Real Madrid out of the Champions League. All is set for the FA Cup final clash between Chelsea and Leicester City at Wembley on Saturday where his son is expected to start for the Blues and Tony told The Other Side Of The Coin, “I’ve got my own opinions, we’re all fans, I’m lucky and fortunate to have a son who is playing at that level and playing for Chelsea, so I look at it from both sides of the coin. “Me personally, I’m a great believer in momentum, I know my son wants to play every game. His body, physically, fitness-wise, from what he’s built up over the last two or three seasons, he’s prepared to play. “He’s played in the Championship three games a week, very physical games, last season he was playing every game for Frank [Lampard], all bar [a few]. So I know he wants to play every game. “I don’t particularly think being left out helps him, personally. But everyone has their own opinion. “I think it’s momentum, as an ex-manager I’m a great believer that you play your strongest team. It is about momentum, you have to fine-tweak it. You look at Mason and you treat Mason differently to how you treat Cesar Azpilicueta or [N’Golo] Kante. “I think the Arsenal game there were some things that weren’t right. I don’t think the balance was right. I don’t think the starting XI was right. It’s about opinions, don’t get me wrong. “The manager had his own thoughts and his own opinions. And I had my thoughts and my opinions when you see the starting line-up. You question whether the preparation was right, whether the mentality was right. “You’re playing Arsenal, they’ve got nothing to play for, it’s a London derby, it’s a massive game for Arsenal. “But saying that, if you look at the two games [against Man City and Arsenal], you’d say coming away with three points out of those two games was to be expected. “I think mentality and fatigue do set in but I think your momentum is a great motivator. “For me, I would’ve stuck with the same team after the Real Madrid game and if it meant playing the next six or seven games [with the same team] I would’ve done it because I think that’s a run-in to the season. “Five changes followed by another five or six changes – does that suit the team? I don’t think it does.”