Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Ahead of the five-day warning strike directed by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) scheduled to commence today in Kaduna, Governor Nasir El-Rufai says he is ready and will wait for the union leaders and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. The governor stated this on Sunday via a tweet on his verified Twitter handle. 2. Three persons were yesterday confirmed dead in a clash between Omor and Anaku communities in Anyamelum Local Government Area of Anambra. DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, Police Public Relations Officer in Anambra confirmed this in Awka on Sunday. 3. The suspended managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala Usman, on Sunday dismissed claims that she allegedly frustrated contractors working with NPA. Usman, in a statement she signed, said the rumours were being peddled by mischief-makers. 4. Elder statesman, Edwin Clark, has kicked against calls for the break-up of some parts of the country, saying it was not the solution to Nigeria’s problems. Clark who spoke yesterday said even amid rising insecurity and economic challenges, he does not believe in Nigeria’s break-up. 5. Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will meet in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, today, to review the current state of the nation. Director-General of the forum, C.I.D. Maduabum stated this in a statement, yesterday. 6. Forum of South East All Progressives Congress (APC) chairmen has opted for dialogue as a panacea to solving the current calls for breakup of the country by some aggrieved groups and tribes in the country. The chairmen made the call, yesterday, after paying a solidarity visit to Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State. 7. Israeli strikes killed 42 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip on Sunday, the worst daily toll yet in almost a week of deadly clashes, as the UN Security Council met amid global alarm at the escalating conflict. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had pleaded for an immediate end to the crisis. 8. Human rights lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN) and the Alliance on Surviving COVID-19 And Beyond yesterday said Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has sacked over 60,000 workers since he took office in May 2015. ASCAB in a statement on Sunday called on all NLC affiliates and supporters to join the “essential strike”. 9. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has called on 36 governors to convene a national unity summit to proffer solutions to the challenges facing the country. In a statement he signed yesterday, Atiku urged the governors to apply wisdom in tackling the challenges, admonishing them against looking up to the Presidency for a solution. 10. The Divisional Police station in Nsukwa, Aniocha South Local Government Area of Delta State was on Sunday afternoon set ablaze by unknown gunmen leading to the death of four officers. The attackers were said to have stormed the station at about 2 pm, shooting sporadically to ward off any resistance.