Nigerians were shocked on Thursday when the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offenses Commission, ICPC declared Gimba Kumo, a son-in-law to President Muhammadu Buhari wanted over alleged misappropriation of National Housing Funds. It can be recalled that Kumo, months after President Buhari’s victory in 2015 got married to Fatima Buhari at the president’s home town, Daura, Katsina State on Friday October 28, 2016. Fatima Buhari became the 4th wife of Malam Gimba Yau Kumo, former Managing Director, Federal Mortgage Bank. It was gathered that the 47-year-old Fatima got married to Kumo after she had allegedly suffered severe domestic violence in the hands of her first husband. According to reports, it was also gathered that her first marriage suffered a setback due to a health crisis birthed by genotype issue. She allegedly gave up on the marriage after having four kids who were all sickle cell patients. The shock came when the ICPC in its list of wanted persons declared Mr Kumo wanted alongside Tarry Rufus and Bola Ogunsola over the alleged fraud. This was contained in a notice signed by the commission’s spokesman, Azuka Ogugua while urging the general public to provide information about the whereabouts of the persons declared wanted. “The persons whose pictures appear above, Mr Tarry Rufus, Mr Gimba Yau Kumo and Mr. Bola Ogunsola, are hereby declared WANTED by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) in connection with issues bordering on misappropriation of National Housing Funds and diversion of the sum of Sixty Five Million dollars ($65,000,000),” Ogugua said. However, in what seems like a properly scripted Nollywood drama, the presidency on Friday swiftly declared that Kumo was no longer President Buhari’s son-in-law. The President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu in a statement on Friday, said the marriage between Fatima and Kumo had collapsed. According to him: “To set the records straight, the person declared wanted by the ICPC isn’t an in-law to President Buhari. “While at some point in time, the said fugitive from justice had been linked to a family member in marriage, that relationship ended some years ago. ”It’s, therefore, unfortunate to bring the President’s family into this case.” Recall that the Nigerian Senate committee on public accounts in April 2021 summoned the fugitive, Kumo to appear before it for questioning over an alleged irregular award of N3 billion contract when he was still at the bank. The committee issued the summons following a query raised in a 2015-2018 report by the office of the auditor-general of the federation (AuGF) against the FMBN. According to the report, the contract was awarded in four phases and was overpaid to the tune of N3,045,391,531.97. The ‘drama’ has triggered reactions from concerned Nigerians as many expressed shock over Garba Shehu’s statement. A former presidential aide, Reno Omokri, on his social media handles blasted the presidency for saying the wanted Kumo was no longer Buhari’s son-in-law. According to a post on his official Facebook page on Saturday, Garba Shehu’s claim was due to the “65 million dollar scam”. “From Muhammadu Buhari’s son-in-law, Gimba Yau Kumo has suddenly become Buhari’s FORMER son-in-law, according to Garba Shehu, the professional liar for hire, all because he is allegedly involved in a 65 million dollar scam. “Buhari, stop rejecting your beloved son-in-law! “Truly success has many fathers, but failure is an orphan!” He wrote. Similarly, a Disc Jockey in the Federal Capital Territory who simply identified himself as DJ Fash, said the presidency was only “running from shame”. “Even when the senator recently summoned Kumo, the presidency didn’t say he was not Buhari’s former son-in-law but immediately he was declared wanted, he is now a former ‘na scam’. “Time has come when statements from this Garba Shehu would no longer make sense to some of us because it seems to me like he takes us as illiterate who have no power to reason. “Why didn’t he tell us the particular date when Buhari’s daughter and the wanted in-law divorced? There is something fishy.” Meanwhile, Gimba Kakanda, the young author of the critically acclaimed poetry collection, Safari Pants said the issue was not a bad name for the president, stating that Kumo was in office before Buhari’s victory in 2015. He made his position known via a tweet in his verified Twitter page on Saturday. “Buhari’s son-in-law being declared wanted for alleged fraud by a government agency isn’t a bad PR for the President. “He became a bank chief before Buhari happened. But Buhari owes it to himself to ensure that Gimba Kumo is brought to justice and given a different first name”, he tweeted. Buhari’s son-in-law, two others declared wanted over $65 million alleged fraud 