A cross section of Nigerians has kicked against the latest curfew announced by the federal government. National Incident Manager, Mukhtar Mohammed at the Presidential briefing in Abuja on Monday, said the curfew would take effect from midnight on Monday, 12am to 4am. Night clubs, gyms would remain closed till further notice with effect from Tuesday. Also gatherings of religious groups and weddings have been reduced to 50 percent attendance. Reacting to the development, some Nigerians on social media claimed the government imposed the curfew to curtail rising cases of insecurity across the nation, adding that COVID-19 cases in the past few days have not been alarming. However others called for a review of the curfew in order not to cripple businesses which are already affected by the economy. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @Odauduene “Where is data to back up this lockdown? Federal government is doing things out of involution. @Ekwelukwa “For what reason, COVID? No reliable data to back this order.” @Od_hut “To curtail the spread of insecurity”. We have the COVID-19 data, and it’s not significantly high. I’d have appreciated an honest statement, considering the situation at hand. They don’t always have to hide behind things, be plain for once.” @Topefasua “NCDC has declared an average of 38 NEW COVID infections and almost zero deaths in the last three weeks. So why kill the little businesses again. Note that the world is talking of an economic boom. FG should seriously invest in vaccines rather than free.” @FaithDa ” This is for the physical insecurity in the country not for Coronavirus, the country is in shambles.” @Akindulureniza “I’m sure it is because of the insecurity not COVID-19.” @OgbodoKuchena “They are sensing a mass uprising. Lockdown is a subtle strategy to impede protests not COVID-19.” @WittySaleu “This new COVID regulations are meant for Muslims celebrating Sallah Horse riding festivals, but federal government simply can’t be seen banning gathering because of deteriorating security bedeviling the country, they rather choose Covid guidelines as a cover to hide their incapacitation. Shame.£ @Ukpai2d1 “It has nothing to do with COVID-19, it’s just fear of mass action.” @Amos_abeeni “They want to intentionally run down Nigeria! This is preposterous, repugnant, baseless and a nuisance to growth and welfare of Nigerians.It is completely unacceptable as there are no genuine reasons for this action.” @Sharon “Is it that we are in Nigeria somewhere else or what, which one is curfew.I was thinking the vaccine was being administered. When did the numbers increase?” Obiano imposes curfew on Anambra communities where 19 persons were murdered 