Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has urged people from different parts of the country and beyond to feel free to come to Aba for business or pleasure. He said the town has been fully rejuvenated and is ready to play host to all persons with lawful intentions. Governor Ikpeazu stated this on Sunday at the closing and prize giving ceremonies of the maiden Abia Governor’s Cup for the Golf Open Championship organized by the Aba Sports Club 1926. He noted that Aba has moved from the status of a pariah town back to its position as a bubbling commercial center. According to Ikpeazu, “if over 250 professional and amateur golf players, most from outside the State and even across the West African coast can converge on Aba and have stayed here for several days for this competition, it speaks to the transformation that has taken place in the town”. The Abia Governor assured that Abia will continue to put issues around sustainable economic development and security of investors on the top burner in the state. He asked discerning investors to come to Aba, make money and enjoy. The State Chief Executive commended the Aba Sports Club for the initiative of the competition which has helped to open up the town and state, noting that those who came for the tournament will tell stories of what they experienced. He assured the club that he will continue to partner with them in sustaining the competition. Governor Ikpeazu also congratulated the winners and later presented the star prize, an SUV vehicle to the overall winner in the professional Cadre, Mr. Bako from Kano State and another vehicle to the winner of the second cadre, Mr. Gbenga. Earlier, the President of the Aba Sports Club 1926, Chief Jerry Kalu, appreciated the Governor for his support in making the competition a reality and for his efforts in the repositioning of Aba. Some members of the State Executive Council as well as trustees and members of the Aba Sports Club 1926 witnessed the event. Abia rerun: Ebisike’s victory was a result of our hard work in Aba – Ikpeazu 