Construction of the new Palace for the paramount ruler of Idoma nation, Och’Idoma officially kicked off on Wednesday in Otukpo with the foundation laying ceremony performed by Governor Samuel Ortom who was accompanied by his Deputy Engr Benson Abounu amid cheers by the entire people of Benue South. A high point of the ceremony was the declaration by the Governor that the decision to award the job to an indigenous contractor was his administration’s deliberate policy to encourage local content and also avoid capital flight. Engr Agaba Ikwue, whose company Intra Engineering & Turnkey Ltd is handling the project is a respected son of Idoma land. The amiable young man is doing wonders in the construction industry. He is also handling the construction of township roads for the state government within Otukpo town, and so far, he has performed creditably well. His choice for the construction of Och’Idoma Palace therefore did not come as a surprise to those who know his track record. Engr Ikwue has promised that the project will be completed and delivered before the year runs out. He made the promise while speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of the gigantic project in Otukpo. He stated that the willingness and commitment of Governor Ortom to ensure that the palace project is completed in record time is a huge encouragement to his company. “My company is not the type that abandons projects. With or without funds, the project will be going on as I promised. The Governor has shown rare commitment and determination to complete this project by monthly release of N100m for work”, Engr Ikwe disclosed. Recall that the presentation of the prototype of the architectural design of the palace by a high powered delegation from the Benue State government led by the Deputy Governor, Engr Benson Abounu was made before the Och’Idoma, HRH Agaba’Idu Elias Ikoyi Obekpa at his palace on the 10th March, 2021 and a swift follow-up of signing of the contractual agreement between the contractor and the Benue State Government team led by the Special Adviser, Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hon. Barr Kenneth Achabo was done. While giving details of the project, Engr Ikwe said, the edifice will be made up of the Main Residential Mansion, Administrative Block, Gate house, Service Quarters, Clinic, Gymnastic Centre, Library, a Museum as well as beautiful Landscaping. Governor Samuel Ortom while performing the ceremony amidst cheers from people of Benue South Senatorial District, gave assurance that his administration will continue to provide projects to parts of the state for the benefit of Benue people. He expressed optimism that the project would be completed within the stipulated time and according to specification based on the competence of the contractor. The fatherly words and blessings of the paramount ruler of Idoma nation, the Och’Idoma, HRH Agaba’Idu Elias Ikoyi Obekpa summed up the event. The Royal father thanked Governor Ortom for his vision and decision to give him a befitting palace. He prayed God to continue to bless and protect the Governor for bringing dignity to traditional rulers of the state. Now that Engr Agaba Ikwue, an indigenous contractor has set to work to construct one of the signature projects of the Ortom administration, the development will surely spur and encourage other home-based contractors to have hope and confidence that their toil is not in vain after all. For Governor Samuel Ortom, this is another feather to his already colorful cap of development. The people of Benue State have not been disappointed in the man they voted on two occasions – 2015 and 2019 to lead them. Ortom leads from the front. Women protest in Idoma community over coal mining as herdsmen invade Owukpa 