The opposition Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), in Kogi State has taken a swipe on Governor Yahaya Bello over the collapse of Ozuma Bridge, in Okengwe, under Okene Local Government. The PDP in a statement signed on Tuesday by the Director Media and Communication Dayo Onibiyo, described the development as sad and dangerous, noting that the collapsed Bridge in the home town of Governor Bello was unfortunate. He said the collapsed bridge, which was allegedly constructed with substandard materials gulped several millions of naira under another wasteful scheme. The collapsed bridge according to the PDP had further exposed road users’ lives to unnecessary dangers, rather than serve the purpose it was constructed for. “It is unfortunate that the administration of Yahaya Bello could not point to any completed project since it came to power, five years ago. “We, therefore, advise Yahaya Bello to borrow a leave from the PDP in the state on how it successfully completed the notorious Meme Bridge and others, without exposing the lives of our good people to any danger,” he said. Onibiyo called on the Standard Organization of Nigeria, (SON) and Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) to come to the aid of Kogi State and to avoid other impending dangers. He also called on the relevant authorities to investigate the failed bridge and ensure that standards were complied with in execution of projects in Kogi State. “We are afraid that the supposed ongoing flyover, under construction at Ganaja junction Lokoja is at same heavy risk, if not worse, if a mere bridge can collapse under a week of its assumed completion by the same government,” he said. Similarly, a human rights activist, and pro-democracy campaigner Omoyele Sowore on his Facebook page also mocked the Kogi State Government saying “Gov. Yahaya Bello and his Deputy, Edward David Onoja are the worst leaders to govern any state in the world. They constructed a bridge in Okene that collapsed in less than a week. What did Kogi people do to deserve these cruel men in the helm of their affairs?” Sowore in another Facebook post blasted the government for their poor infrastructural development in Kogi State. His words” This is the road in Ankpa area of Kogi state that Chief Edward David Onoja recently commissioned with one of the rogue legislators representing the state, who did Kogi people offend to have these characters as ‘leaders?’” 2023: Drop your presidential ambition – APC council tell Yahaya Bello 