The Armed Forces of Nigeria, AFN, has said that the air crash that killed the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and ten others on Friday was caused by inclement weather. As DAILY POST had earlier reported, Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru died in an air crash at about 6:00p.m. on Friday. A military Beachcraft 350 carrying him went down at the Kaduna International Airport on Friday, claiming all passengers. The top military officer was in Kaduna on an official trip. DAILY POST gathered that Attahiru’s aides died with him. In a statement signed by Brig.Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, Acting Director Defence Information and made available to DAILY POST on Friday night, he blamed inclement weather for the crash. “It is with a heavy heart that the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) regrets to announce that this evening at about 1800 Hours, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Ibrahim Attahiru in company of his entourage, who were on official trip from Abuja to Kaduna, were involved in an air mishap,” the statement said. “The unfortunate incident occurred after landing at the Kaduna International Airport due to inclement weather. “The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Lucky Irabor has therefore directed that an Accident Investigation Board be constituted to unravel the immediate and remote cause(s) of the unfortunate accident. “As we pray for the repose of the souls of our gallant and committed Chief of Army Staff and other personnel on board with him, the AFN solicits the support and understanding of all Nigerians in the face of this tragic incident. “We wish to state that the Armed Forces of Nigeria remains resolute in combating the security challenges bedeviling our nation. The sacrifices of our dearly departed heroes will not be in vain. “Meanwhile, the CDS urges all military personnel and their families to take heart and be condoled on this tragic loss. “The CDS also reassures all Nigerians of the commitment and loyalty of the Armed Forces of Nigeria to the Constitution and Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as it continues to carry out its responsibilities,” the statement said. Plane crash: Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru’s death shocking – Buhari 