Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State has frowned at calls for the formation of a security network in the North-East. He said rather than advocate the formation of the North-East Security Network, people should support him in his call for state and local government police. Ishaku, who spoke on Sunday while filing questions from newsmen in Jalingo, the state capital, said the situation in the sub region has gone beyond the formation of a security network. Describing the situation as “a full blown insurgency which can only be handled by the nation’s military might”, he said the need for those agitating for a formation of the security network within the region to drop the idea and push for state police has become necessary. He said, “I am vehemently opposed to formation of the North East security network because our situation in the sub region is a full blown insurgency.” “I have been and still calling for state police and even local government police ” affirmed that “that is what I believe can solve the nation’s present security challenges”. Also decrying the ongoing upheavals between herders and farmers in the state, his government, as stated by him, is doing everything humanly possible to end the killings and displacements of persons. He blamed the ongoing violence, which has led to massive killings and destruction of property, on the conflict in the neighboring Benue State. He expressed sadness that such a crisis has led to the attacks on Innocent people in Taraba, stating that it was wrong to attack innocent people in his state over the crisis in another state. Ishaku, who after recounting his administration’s achievements in the past six years especially in the areas of water, education, health and others, ended up scoring himself 80% , reiterated his administration’s determination to complete all ongoing projects initiated by him before bowing out of the system in 2023. On the issues of minimum wage, gratuity and pension that recently crippled both government and private activities in the state following the strike action embarked on by organized labour, their demands, according to him , are being looked into. Abia’s unknown gunmen: Attacks linked to destruction of Kanu’s family house, arrest of IPOB members 