The youth wing of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has warned the Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and his All Progressives Congress (APC) against any attempt to rig the July 24 local government elections. The PDP Youth Leader in Ogun State, Hon. Lukmon Ajomale said this while speaking with DAILY POST in Abeokuta on Tuesday. PDP youths, under the aegis of the Lado Youth Vanguard, had gathered at the party secretariat in Abeokuta to receive over 2,000 new members into their fold from Abeokuta South. Ajomale, who said the party is ready for the local government polls, said the youths in the opposition party were ready to do everything possible to secure their votes from being rigged by those in the helm of affairs. While saying the PDP youths are not known for causing civil unrest, Ajomale reminded Gov Abiodun and the APC that anything that could trigger another EndSARS protest that led to killings and carnage in 2020 should be avoided during the local polls. The youth group said the PDP was not scared of the power of incumbency, recalling that the APC defeated the PDP in 2015. “Gov Abiodun and the APC already know that there could be a repeat of the EndSARS protest if they try to rig the local government elections. If they try to do abracadabra with the elections, definitely there will be violence. “It is not that we are threatening them, but they should know that they cannot manipulate peoples’ victory. They cannot deny them the mandate people give to them. They can’t do that. If they try to do that, they have already told people that what happened during the EndSARS protest will repeat itself,” Ajomale warned. The youth leader explained that the Lado vanguard is on a mission to mobilise over 200,000 youths for the PDP ahead of the 2023 governorship election. The mission, according to him, is to remove Abiodun and the APC from power in the next election, expressing optimism that Hon. Ladi Adebutu would become the next governor of the Gateway State. DAILY POST reports that the event was attended by the party State Chairman, Hon. Sikirulahi Ogundele, Ladi Adebutu, Akeem Amosun, Toyin Amuzu, the Publicity Secretary, Akinloye Bankole, among others. End SARS: Akeredolu decries worsening insecurity as judicial panel recommends N755m compensation 