A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Plateau State and Convener of Professionals in PDP, Samuel Jatau says signing the new Electoral Act into law by President Muhammadu Buhari is one of the critical issues that must be captured in the ongoing Constitution Review. He equally urged the National Assembly to be sincere enough to give Nigeria a constitution that will address security challenges, marginalization and imbalance in governance in the country. Jatau disclosed this during an interaction with Journalists, at the North-Central public hearing on the review of the 1999 constitution, ongoing in Jos, the State Capital. He said, “In my opinion, there is a need for a complete change of our constitution because some are calling for us to go back to 1963 constitution and that will not be good for us in the Central part of Nigeria, especially those of us in the Middle Belt because that recognizes four regions. “We need to have federating units. Devolution of power, we are heavy at the top, you can see the number of cars that are here just for a handful of people and the cost is high. “The issues of a bicameral legislature is another burning issue, we need to change to either parliamentary or unicameral; these are issues that need to be addressed. Jatau said “I hope and believe that the 9th Assembly will be sincere enough to carry out this exercise quickly and honestly. “If you can see that the attendance is high because there are lots of expectations and apprehension, people are expecting some changes. He, however, said, “This exercise will not address some of the challenges we are facing as a nation, I think we are playing politics. “There is always a constitution review at every Assembly and money is budgeted for it, we are just performing a role to justify the monies that are in the budget”. “The Electoral Act is long overdue, we need to pass a new Electoral Act. The President told us that he didn’t sign the new Electoral Act into law because it was too close to the 2019 election, but it is now 2 years, yet he hasn’t done anything”, he lamented. “You can see the lack of sincerity of our leaders, we need an electoral act that captures the times. It is one of the critical things that need to be captured in this matter, the President needs to sign the new Electoral Act into law”, he stressed. Key Igbo leaders shun Ohanaeze Elders’ Council meeting in Owerri 