Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, has admitted the failure of government across board, warning the Southern Governors against fighting President Muhammadu Buhari or putting all the blames on the Federal Government. Bello spoke while featuring on Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’ programme, warning his counterparts from the Southern States to be careful of their utterances so as not to heat up the polity. He said, “Let me caution each and every one of us, leaders across board including governors and all of the leaders across Nigeria that we should be careful about the words we use,” Bello warned. “When we are talking of security, unity and national cohesion of Nigeria, as leaders and politicians, we should be careful about the words we use when we are addressing these various topical issues. “When it is titled or when it appears as if you are fighting President Muhammadu Buhari, our father and our President, we are all getting it wrong because we get to where we are today as a result of maladministration of successive administrations. “There have been collective failures across board, so let’s not just blame it alone on the federal government or Mr President.” Recall that Governors from the Southern region on Tuesday met in Asaba, Delta State to proffer solutions to increasing security issues in the country. The Governors, as DAILY POST earlier reported, condemned open grazing and movement of cattle from the Northern region to the South. The governors further called for a national conference to determine national questions bothering on the nature of Nigeria’s federalism and federal character in national appointments, among other issues. On this, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, Mike Ozekhome, disagreed with the governors, saying it was unnecessary for the country to hold another confab. According to the frontline lawyer, the call made by the Southern governors was unnecessary considering that the recommendation of the one held in 2014 had not been implemented. Ozekhome recalled that the 2014 conference brought together 492 Nigerians drawn from all strata but has not been implemented by the President Muhammadu Buhari government. The lawyer said that even though the governors meant well for the country, there is absolutely no need to converge for another conference. He said instead, the Governors should go back to the 2014 recommendations and they will see that most of the things people are clamouring for are contained in it. Ozekhome also pointed out that 2014 confab document contains the call for part-time legislature, wondering what Nigeria is doing with 306 House of Representatives members and 99 senators. I won’t disappoint Nigerians – Gov Yahaya Bello drops hint on running for president 