The National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies ( NILDS), has rolled out documented strategies for stakeholders in the country on health Emergencies’ preparedness. This is as one of the writers of the health emergencies preparedness compendium who currently serves as resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Niger State, Professor Samuel Egwu, described Nigerian elites as homicidal. As a way of preventing the nation from being caught unawares by any health emergency, the way the COVID- 19 pandemic took the entire world by surprise last year with attendant devastation, NILDS called for National Health Development Action as contained in a well researched book of 670 pages and 34 chapters, launched in Abuja on Wednesday. The book titled: “A Political Economy of Pandemics and Consequences of COVID – 19 for Nigeria”, according to Director General of NILDS, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman , is one of the most multi – disciplinarian document on a global issue. “Forty experts from various disciplines contributed to this publication loaded with required insights into inherent deficiencies in our Political , Economy, Social and Health Sectors which must be critically addressed. “Strategic plans such as National Health Development Action , Universal Health Coverage, adequate funding of the health sector from time to time with required legislative framework and oversights etc “, are well proposed and enunciated in the book. “Health emergency is a constant element of human nature, requiring emergency preparedness, which the book is all about”, he said. Also in his own remarks, the reviewer of the book, Professor Sam Egwu said the book is not primarily about COVID – 19 but health emergencies generally and the required state of preparedness. According to him, pandemics and emergencies are political issues to be addressed by elected political leaders through decisive policy measures and parliamentary oversights. “The issue of elites is also very important as far as implementation of such policy measures are concerned. “The elites as critical stakeholders in any society, must be supportive of policy measures put in place by political leaders in addressing emergencies and not be homicidal, as it is, with majority of Nigerian elites” , he said. In their separate remarks, both the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, admonished Nigerians that the COVID-19 pandemic is not over yet, the reason why vaccine against it, must be embraced by all. “I took the first jab of the vaccine early last month and getting prepared for the second jab next week. It has no any adverse effects as earlier rumoured in some quarters. So all Nigerians should feel free to get vaccinated against the dreaded virus”, said Ahmad Lawan. Gbajabiamila in his own remarks, said the infectious Disease Bill he sponsored as a result of COVID – 19 pandemic, was geared towards providing the required interventionist legislations for such health emergencies. ‘Buhari govt scared of insecurity’ – Nigerians react as FG imposes curfew, closes clubs 