President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has come under attack over plans to cut salaries of civil servants in Nigeria. Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed on Tuesday said that President Buhari ordered the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission to reduce the salaries of workers and employees of several agencies to save costs in order to help the government reduce the high cost of governance. This did not go down well with Nigerians who slammed the government for inflicting more pains on the people despite the high cost of living. Some Nigerians took to Twitter demanding that the government should begin by slashing of salaries from Senators, House of Reps and other expenses of top government officials. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter: @Franklinbayo “The common will still bear the brunt. Why start the slash from the NASS. Why must the ordinary people suffer while the govt officials feed fat. This is why we need to get it right come 2023.” @NdibuezeMonday “This Government is the worst instead of cutting their own salary to help this nation. If all of them cut 50% of their salaries from president to Chancellor then we will become a developed country.” @Seunade “Why e be say na civil servant’s de suffer,why not the senators,the house of reps,lg chairmen,councillor, governors salaries? Wetin civil servant’s no go see for this Nigeria? @Irikefe12 “One of the characteristics of a clueless government, when the 30k minimum wages is not enough, but theirs almost 50m a month is not a problem.” @Eye_hear_say, “Civil servants, though am not one,work for their pay packets. The salary cut should start from the National Assembly down to the Executive arm of govt. The financial burden has ran the country aground without any commensurate gains. Politics should have less pecuniary incentives.” @Ekwe_nsu “One person is a former governor, house of assembly, local government chairman and currently a senator and he or she receive money every month from all this yet civil servants’ salary is the problem. This country is gone.” @MonsieurOla “Buhari government no cut governors, ministers and himself salary; na civil workers deserve salary cut, just saying that we may think he has a brain in his head when it’s actually fufu that’s in there.” @Josephyitnoe “These guys are begging Nigerians for wahala. Start with yourself and the National assembly, let it trickle down.” @Khaycee_o “How do you cut down on people’s salaries when most of them can’t barely afford to pay their rent? What sort of thoughtless and brainless decision do these people make though.” @LukmonBalogun5 “Leave the lower level and start from level 12 up to all politicians, if not you will striking matches on wet petroled Nigeria fabric.” @Opeyemidevelop “Why can’t senators, Reps, Governors, and other political post shout start from themselves. We are in trouble under Buhari.” @Iykogueri “Lead by example, start with ur own salary and allowance.” @Theodorewintor “In other words He said the suffering of Nigerians is not enough.” @Abdulbaki “What! Haaaa when things are now expensive, you still want to cut worker’s’ salary, I see.”