Men of Oyo State Police Command have arrested two fraudsters who have been defrauding innocent residents of the State by buying goods and collecting money from Point of Sales (POS) operators with fake bank alerts. DAILY POST gathered that the duo of Olayide Olumide and Oluwemimo Adeyanju have been purchasing clothing materials and electronics from shop owners and market women. They also withdrew money from Point of Sale (POS) operators in some parts of Ibadan such as Apete and Awotan communities. The suspects were arrested after series of complaints from some of the victims. DAILY POST gathered on Tuesday that the suspects were arrested on Friday by the Police operatives attached to Apete Police Divisional Headquarters. Items recovered from them included home theater with three speakers, 14 jeans trousers, 10 male wears, One MP Player, One Standing fan, One Rubber palm sandal and One 32 Inch LG Plasma TV. Others are, One CD Tape Player, One DVD Player, One Laptop, One mini DVD Player and One 24 Inch LG Plasma TV. Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Mr. Adewale Osifeso confirmed the arrest of the suspects in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday. Osifeso said, “Friday 7th May, 2021 at about 0930hrs, the duo of Olayide Olumide ‘m’ and Oluwemimo Adeyanju ‘m’ landed in the net of the Police, this success was recorded through the relentless efforts of Police Operatives attached to Apete Police Divisional Headquarters, consequent upon several reports of the fraudulent act of purchasing valuables with fake alert, ripping people of their gains, the most recent recorded to be the purchase of electronics and fashion items around Apete area by the duo.
“Investigative apparatus were deployed which led to the arrest of the suspects. Upon interrogation, the duo confessed to the crime and presented the exhibits recovered from them to be valuables bought from the proceeds of this crime. Investigation for ground breaking insights continues. “SUSPECTS: Adeyanju Oluwemimo ‘m’ aged 27 yrs, Olajide Olumide ‘m’ aged 31 yrs “EXHIBITS: 1. Home Theater with three speakers, 14 Jeans trousers, 10 male wears, One MP Player, One Standing fan, One Rubber palm sandal, One 32 Inch LG Plasma TV, One CD Tape Player, One DVD Player, One Laptop, One mini DVD Player, One 24 Inch LG Plasma TV.” How nemesis caught up with 3 ‘spirits’ in Katsina – Police 