AKWA IBOM 07 May 2021 – The Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa) has provided a N5billion grant to the Akwa Ibom State Government targeted at healthcare and social development as part of its annual $100 million dollars Annual Africa Fund for Social Development and Renewal. This was announced during a presentation of the grant award letter by ASR Africa to the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel in Uyo, Thursday. Speaking at the presentation, Kabiru Rabiu, representing the Chairman of ASR Africa and BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, commended Governor Udom for his strides in upgrading the State healthcare infrastructure and referral system at the Primary and Secondary levels, as well as the state’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic for which the BUA Foundation donated 5 ambulances and 50,000 reusable facemasks during the pandemic, and which were distributed to students and vulnerable groups across the state. He disclosed that the project initiation process and development of mutual accountability frameworks to guide the grant usage will commence immediately whilst adding that ASR Africa has also approved the immediate and initial disbursement of N2.5billion from the total sum to a jointly managed fund guaranteeing the commencement of the programme. L-R: Kabiru Rabiu, representing the Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa) presenting an ASR Africa Grant Award Letter for a N5billion healthcare and social development grant for Akwa Ibom state to Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom in Uyo on Thursday.  In his remarks, Governor Udom praised the Founder of the Initiative, Abdul Samad Rabiu for his consistent commitment to social good and philanthropy. He also added that the projects to be funded by the grant will be jointly approved and implemented in line with the ASR Africa Grants Utilisation Framework. Furthermore, Governor Udom said that the state will continue to do more to boost social development and improve the healthcare infrastructure for its citizens considering the great strides have already been made. While reiterating the purpose of ASR Africa, Ubon Udoh, Managing Director of ASR Africa said, “The initiative’s core areas of intervention are Education, Health and Social Development in Africa and our main focus is on equipping facilities, researchers, healthcare practitioners and community-level service providers and also supporting the efforts of various Governments in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa.   “The purpose of this initiative is to give back to the society. ASR Africa has set aside100million dollars annually for social development, health and education intervention in Nigeria and Africa through the ASR Africa Fund for Social Development and Renewal. Of this amount, 50million dollars is being committed to Nigeria and another $50million for the rest of Africa. Prior to now,, the initiative had donated N1billion each to the University of Ibadan, Oyo State and the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Kaduna State under our education intervention programme.. Akwa Ibom state will be the first sub-national government to benefit from this Fund as well as the first to benefit from the healthcare component. We are currently evaluating other beneficiaries within Nigeria and the rest of Africa. ABOUT ASR AFRICA The Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative seeks to support sustainable development initiatives in the Health, Education and Social Development within Nigeria and the rest of Africa, every year. For more information visit asrafrica.org or email asrafrica[at]buagroup[dot]com