Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on Thursday reacted to the arrest of Eastern Security Network, ESN, Deputy Commander. Kanu said the man arrested by the Nigerian Army was too old to be recruited into the ESN. The Nigerian Army had claimed it arrested the ESN Deputy Commander, Awurum Eze in Aba, Abia State. Awurum’s arrest was disclosed by the Director of Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Mohammed Yerima, on Wednesday night. The IPOB leader, however, described reports of the alleged arrest by the Nigerian Army as false. Kanu in a statement by IPOB’s spokesman, Emma Powerful, said Awurum was handed over to the Nigerian forces as an ESN Commander after a misunderstanding with a traditional ruler. “The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), ably led by our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, read with utter amusement, media reports of claims by the Nigeria Army that it arrested Ikonso’s Second in Command in Aba. This is a blatant lie and cheap propaganda to lay false claims to imaginary military prowess. “The said man is not an operative of ESN. Such a man is too old to be recruited into ESN, let alone be Ikonso’s Second in Command. “That you ambushed Ikonso with the help of some traitors did not mean you have crushed ESN. Stop claiming what you have not done in your bid to win public accolades. If you arrest or kill Ikonso’s second in Command we will not hesitate to admit it just the same way we did not deny the murder of Ikonso. We are not like Nigeria that lives in propaganda; we tell the truth always. So, stop harassing innocent Biafrans in the name of a manhunt for ESN personnel. “Our background check revealed that the said man had issues with his traditional ruler who gave his contact to the security agents alleging that he belongs to ESN. He is not our own. “We are assuring them that whatever they do they cannot win ESN in this fight for freedom. The secret killing and abduction can never make IPOB change our resolve towards restoring Biafra as an independent nation. “Again, we wish to remind Biafrans and the world, of a grand plot by the Nigeria security agencies to reduce the Biafra population through the ongoing secret abductions and killing of innocent Biafrans after tagging them IPOB and ESN members. “This wicked plot which started in Imo State is now gaining momentum across the entire Biafra land through the collaboration of some traitors in the mould of Supreme Court administrator of Imo State Hope Uzodinma and his likes. Biafrans of all age brackets are now at the mercy of the double-faced Nigeria security agents as all they need to arrest and kill them off is to brand them ESN operative or sponsor.” Nigerian forces eliminate IPOB’s ESN commander Ikonso, 6 others 