The Northern States Christian Elders Forum, NOSCEF, has urged the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to match words with actions in exploring all available options in nipping insecurity in the bud to prevent Nigeria from going the way of Somalia NOSCEF noted with dismay the increasing spate of insecurity in the country, stressing that something urgent needs to be done to save the country from total collapse. NOSCEF, in a statement signed by Engr. Ejoga Oyinehi Inalegwu, and made available to DAILY POST in Kaduna, after its executive meeting on Wednesday, stated, “NOSCEF views with great concern the escalating insecurity, spreading like wildfire across the nation and shaking the very foundation of the nation’s existence. The new trend of targeting students is most condemnable.” The forum appealed to President Buhari to seek every available aid, both internal and external to reverse the trend before Nigerians lose their beloved country. The forum noted that the country must not be left to go the way of Somalia, ruled by warlords, with a reign of lawlessness, as the country is already drifting into. The group condemned the attacks on the military and security outfits in various parts of the country, stressing that these weaken the institutions that still hold the country together as a people, at the cost of their own lives. NOSCEF, therefore, sympathized with families of the military, police and other security personnel, who lost their lives sacrificially in the course of their duty of defending their fatherland. The forum commended the Benue state Governor, Dr. Samuel Ortom, for exposing the criminal elements and his commitment/involvement in helping the military authorities to unearth all those involved in the killing of soldiers in the course of their lawful duty. It urged the military, police and other security outfits to remain undeterred in their commitment to seeking an end to the security challenges confronting the country. The forum noted that the President must ensure that the mopping up of all arms is wholesome and must not be implemented with any bias that would make those who comply become even more vulnerable to criminal attacks. It observed that the implementation team must be broad-based to win the confidence of all and not limited to any favoured segment of the nation. NOSCEF also urged Nigerians to continue to fast and pray for God’s intervention, stressing that, for with God, nothing is impossible.