The President of the Nigerian Senate Dr. Ahmad Lawan, has appealed for restraint on the part of those calling for revenge on the gruesome murder of the Chieftain of the All Progressive Congress APC Ahmed Gulak in Owerri, Imo State. Gulak, a former Speaker of the Adamawa State House of Assembly was shut to death by unknown gunmen on Sunday in Oweri, Imo State. However, rather going for revenge, Lawan said individuals and groups of people should allow the relevant authorities to serve justice In the matter, noting that the injury of the crime was inflicted on Nigeria as a whole. Lawan, in a statement issued on Monday and copied Daily Post by his Special Adviser on Media, Mr Ola Awoniyi, described the dastardly act as “one crime too many” and called for a swift investigation to bring all who are involved in the crime to justice. The Senate President, while condemning the killing, maintained that there can be no justification for the brutal murder of a human being and fellow citizen. He commiserated with the family and friends of the departed as well as the government and people of Adamawa State on the incident. It will be recalled that the late Gulak, who was also a former Political Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, was murdered on Sunday morning by gunmen on his way to the Sam Mbakwe Airport to catch a flight to Abuja. The Imo State Police Command, however, announced has since announced that it has neutralised the killers of the foremost politician and lawyer as well as recovered ammunition and vehicles from them. It listed some of the arms recovered from the attackers as three AK 47 rifles, one pistol, five AK 47 magazines with 92 rounds of live ammunition. Our correspondent reports that the Arewa youth under the aegis of the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria had issued threat to declare Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State unacceptable and unwelcome in the North, if he failed to produce the killers of Gulak in his domain. The group, however, withdrew the threat on Monday following the elimination of the suspected killers of the late politician by the state Police Command. Bandits kill 11 villagers to revenge informant’s death 