Motorists and commuters in Imo have appealed to the state government to dismantle the roadblocks along the Government House roundabout to ease the long traffic gridlock within the axis. Some drivers who spoke with our correspondent on Tuesday, narrated their ordeal while using the major link road where the state government house is situated. A bus driver who pleaded anonymity condemned the act of frustrating peoples movement ever since the purported ‘unknown gunmen’ set the state correctional centre on fire. Hear him, “it is always the poor masses that suffer in this situations. Ever since the state prison yard was burnt by unknown gunmen, this place has been blocked. “Our security agents are used to fighting crimes when the deed has already been done. This is absolute nonsense! “There is virtually no place in Owerri that is free to move through. Everywhere is blocked by the security agents. “Once they hear the sound of the unknown gunmen, they will disappear into the thin air. It is only on the innocent civilians who are looking for their daily bread, that they have power over. “Now, I’m hearing that the Governor who came back on Friday from Abuja, has run back to the FCT leaving his state in ruins. Who is deceiving who? “For all I know, the Governor should not run away from his responsibilities. He should come back home to face the situation, as no other person will do it other than him. “Running to Abuja every now and then won’t solve the problem. Let him know that his state is in turmoil, and needs to be secured from the hands of unknown gunmen.” A youth leader in Mbieri Mbaitoli LGA of Imo state, Chinagorom Christopher, in a Facebook post, also condemned the increasing traffic gridlock in the state capital, describing it as unfortunate. He said the government is being unnecessarily callous to suffer the poor masses, most of which are mini-bus drivers, who have no other means of livelihood. He asked that the roadblocks along the streets of Owerri be dismantled with immediate effect to enable the people search for their daily bread. The Governor, it was reported, came back from Abuja on Friday and worshipped at Government House Victory Chapel where he assured Imo people of the government’s readiness to expose and arraign the perpetrators of the crimes. However, Governor Hope Izodinma was said to have jetted out to the FCT on Monday morning, to the chagrin of Imo people who leave in fear of the unknown.