Commissioners in Imo State, who were relieved of their duties, have cried out over the manner with which the Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma gave the sack order. DAILY POST gathered that the twenty eight commissioners were invited for an expanded exco meeting in Government House and the announcement was made in the course of the meeting. The sacked Commissioner for Transport, Rex Anunobi who could not hide his feelings, said it was most unfair that twenty commissioners would be sacked at a stretch. “It would have been better if the governor announced our disengagement on the radio rather than calling us out for an exco meeting and embarrassing us publicly. “It is most embarrassing that the Governor also instructed the security personnel at the government house not to allow any of us to leave in the government vehicles. “Frankly, this is the most embarrassing moment of my life. I came to the government house in a car but boarded taxi to get home. “In the course of my service to the state as the commissioner for Transport, I did my best. I never knew even in my wildest dream, that I would be part of those who would be sacked, but God knows the best,” he lamented. The former commissioner for Education, Prof. B.T. O Ikegwuoha, who was also shocked at the development given his affinity with the governor, has started lobbying for reappointment by attending government functions. It was gathered that the sacked commissioners reportedly hold series of meetings in Owerri to improvise a better means of lobbying for reappointment. Noble Atulegwu, the sacked commissioner for Lands, Survey and Physical Planning, in an interview on Sunday, expressed optimism of being reappointed, describing the governor’s action as the best means of selecting stronger hands for better result. Meanwhile, others who have no hope of coming back, have seen the governor’s action as creating more enemies to his government. The governor’s expanded cabinet, including the Special Advisers and Senior Special Assistants, are jittery that the Governor may extend the reshuffling to them. Gov Uzodinma fires 20 commissioners 