Muhammad Babandede, the Comptroller-General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), has warned job seekers paying money to secure employment, that immigration job wasn’t for sale. Babandede gave the warning on Friday in Abuja at a media chat on the NIS ongoing recruitment exercise, NAN reports. He explained that some of its officers were arrested for extorting money from desperate job seekers and handed over to the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) for prosecution. He said, “Immigration jobs aren’t for sale and we’ve arrested so many people in respect of fraudulent activities and deception about our ongoing recruitment exercise. “Just last week, I signed a letter to ICPC forwarding one Immigration officer and Correctional personnel to them for prosecution. “They’ve collected almost N15 million from innocent Nigerians, who gave them money with a promise of jobs in the service.” According to Babandede, a lot of people have opened fake websites which look exactly like NIS with his pictures all over such as: www.immigration.gov while ours is www.immigration.gov.ng. “Anybody, who has given money for or asked to give money about recruitment, should send details of the person or officer concerned to my email. “If you’re not satisfied, because it is a report against us, there’s SERVICOM site. Or, better still, you can go to ICPC or any anti-corruption agency near you. “We’ve not sold any slot, we don’t intend to sell any slot, there will be no slot for sale,” He reiterated. Babandede said that only 4,120 applicants would be employed by Immigration after undergoing physical fitness examination and credential verification. He noted that the list of successful applicants would be published on the NIS official website. According to him, successful candidates would be contacted through bulk emails and text messages. He added that applicants were expected to check the NIS website for their centre, starting from Monday. On security measures put in place to ensure candidates’ safety, Babandede said that all NIS state officers would work with security agencies in all the 6 zones during the exercise.