A former Secretary to Oyo State Government, Chief Sharafadeen Abiodun Alli has claimed that the yesterday’s Supreme Court judgement is an affirmation that Governor Seyi Makinde is spending the State’s money extravagantly. Alli made this disclosure via a statement made available to DAILY POST on Saturday. DAILY POST recalls that Supreme Court had yesterday declared the removal of local government chairmen who were elected during the tenure of immediate past Governor, late Abiola Ajimobi in 2018 as null and void. The Court urged Makinde to without wasting more time, pay all entitlements of the sacked council bosses including salaries and allowances. The Court also awarded a sum of twenty million naira (N20M) against the state government under Makinde. Alli in his reaction, maintained that the outcome of the Supreme Court judgement was a confirmation of Makinde’s profligate spending and lack of administrative acumen. He said, “The outcome of the Supreme Court judgement on the local government administration in Oyo State is commendable. Every politician will learn from the outcome of the Court judgement. It is a proof that Government of the day is profligate. “Why would a Governor be so myopic to the extent of sacking elected chairmen of local government the same day he was sworn in as the governor. “In effect, the Governor had paid his appointed Caretaker Chairmen and their members and will also pay the elected Chairmen and Councillors. All these payments are from tax payers purse and at a time of dwindling allocation from the Federal government! “At a time we are encouraging government to block all the leakages, excesses and wastage in Government. I will advise the Governor to listen to critical stakeholders who understands governance in Oyo State. “On this note, I want to congratulate the entire family of Progressives in Oyo State, the grassroots politicians, members of ALGON and Nigerians for this outstanding Supreme Court fc judgement. I hope other Governors learn from this and never trample on basic constitutional matters.”