The Lagos State House of Assembly, on Monday, read for a second time a bill that seeks to repeal the law which grants pension and other emoluments to former governors. The beneficiaries are Bola Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola, Akinwunmi Ambode and their deputies during respective tenure. DAILY POST published the breakdown of the entitlements. The act is titled ‘A Bill for a law to repeal the law to provide for the payment of pensions and other fringe benefits to public office holders in Lagos State and for other connected matters’. At sitting presided over by the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, the lawmakers argued that it would be unfair to repeal the law in its entirety as there were some important sections that should be considered. Hon. Oluyinka Ogundimu (Agege 2) said governors and their deputies and other political office holders should be made to enjoy some benefits no matter how little. He said the bill should be amended in such a way that it would not throw former political officers to security challenges as it proposes withdrawing all security agents and domestic staff earlier attached to them. Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti-Osa 2), noted that the parliament has the power to make and review laws, especially where it includes one like the pension bill that was passed 14 years ago. Yishawu said the objective of the bill, as raised by the executive, is to ensure that the state look inward in relation to cost of governance. He backed security for the past officials. Rotimi Abiru (Shomolu 2) declared his support for an amendment to the law instead of a repeal. Hon. Tobun Abiodun (Epe 1) said he does not subscribe to a total repeal and fears it would give room to corruption in office. He said certain provisions should be made available to governors, deputies and possibly speakers after they leave office. Hon. Jude Idimogu (Oshodi-Isolo 2), Hon. Saad Olumo (Ajeromi-Ifelodun 1) and Hon. Abdulsobur Olawale (Mushin 2) made contributions. In his remarks, Obasa supported arguments that repealing the law in totality would expose former governors and deputies to security-wise. The Speaker committed the bill to the House Committee on Establishment with a two-week mandate for a report. FG retirees owed pensions since March 2020 – PenCom 