Former Senate leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, has urged Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, who defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Thursday, to be transparent and accountable, saying the qualities are the hallmark of the party. Ndoma-Egba, who was leader of the 7th Senate and Secretary, APC 2018 National Convention Planning Committee, gave Ayade the advice in his congratulatory message. “My expectation is that your coming will enrich our internal democracy and I enjoin you to be consultative, inclusive, democratic, transparent and accountable because these are the hallmarks of the All Progressives Congress family. “I also expect that your presence in the APC will further strengthen the party and improve our electoral fortunes in Cross River State. I have no doubts that the APC family in the State has received you with open arms and will work with you to reposition our dear State on the path of unprecedented socioeconomic and sociopolitical development. “On behalf of myself and political associates, I heartily congratulate Your Excellency, Senator Prof. Ben Ayade, Governor of Cross River State on your well thought out decision to formally defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC) today and join the league of Progressive Governors in Nigeria. “Your Excellency will recall that Cross River State has always been in the mainstream of Nigeria politics. There is no gainsaying the fact that the past 6 years of being in the opposition has impacted the State negatively, even though you have consciously navigated the ship of governance in sync with the APC-led Federal Government. “As a State, we can ill-afford to remain in the opposition. I commend you for recognizing this fact and doing the needful for the good of our dear State. “Our core objective remains forging a stronger, united and formidable APC that will deliver the dividends of good governance to all Cross Riverians irrespective of political affiliation, ethnicity and religion. I trust that you are well in tandem with this. “Once again, congratulations and welcome to the All Progressives Congress” Ndoma-Egba stated. Why I joined APC – Ayade 