A Yoruba leader, Prof. Banji Akintoye has alerted of impending terrorists’ invasion of the South-West region of Nigeria. The historian and former Senator of the Second Republic have written to all South-West Governors and Yoruba groups, urging their leaders to be on the lookout. A statement by his Communications Manager, Maxwell Adeleye, alleged that the new midnight curfew announced by the federal government to curtail the spread of COVID-19 had clandestine motives. Akintoye further claimed that the March to May 2020 lockdown was used to import terrorists from the North to the Southern parts of Nigeria. Calling for immediate actions, he said if a high level of vigilance is not mounted in Yoruba areas, very serious pains can be inflicted upon countless numbers of citizens. Akintoye revealed the content of the letter he wrote to the six governors in the zone. He noted that a combination of “Fulani terrorists, Boko Haram and ISIS” have occupied Niger State which is immediately north of Yorubaland, thereby providing themselves very easy access through of Kwara and Kogi States. Akintoye recalled the recent notice by the United States that ISIS has infiltrated Southern Nigeria from the sea, “meaning that the coast of Lagos, Ogun and Ondo States have been infiltrated”. “I am hereby raising an informed alarm to the Governors of our states. I humbly and passionately urge our Governors to come together to give the needed response to the danger that threatens to engulf our Yorubaland in, most probably, the next few days. “The signature action of these foreign terrorist organisations is to first destroy prominent assets of the society that they attack. That could mean that major public and private buildings in Lagos and Ibadan, particularly the hugely symbolic Cocoa House in Ibadan, would be their immediate targets.” Akintoye advised the Southwest to remember that all past efforts by terrorists had special plans for Yoruba land because “it is the home of the richest non-petroleum resources in Nigeria.” Listing other possible targets, the elder statesman charged prominent individuals and religious leaders to beef up security around their premises. “These include bridges, important public and private buildings, churches and such eminent Church estates as the Redeem, Winners, Deeper Life, Mountain of Fire Church camps and the unique Synagogue building of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, and even our most prestigious Central Mosque buildings in Lagos, Ibadan and our other cities. “We must remember that when these terrorists broke into the Mali Republic some years ago they destroyed the revered mosque of the ancient Sankore University in Timbuktu, the greatest Islamic monument in West Africa. To them, whatever does not qualify as fundamentalist or jihadist deserves to be destroyed.” Akintoye urged the Yorubas, especially the youths, to perform their duty, to secure the country and carve an honourable place for themselves in history. He told them to make it clear to the world that now is the last and final battle of the Yoruba people against the destructive elements of Nigeria and the Yoruba nation. Buhari has refused to tag herdsmen terrorists, his govt killing innocent Nigerians – Fr Mbaka 