A team of security experts have arrived Nigeria to train operatives and management staff of the newly established National Taskforce on the Prohibition of Illegal Importation/Smuggling of Arms, Ammunitions, Light Weapons, Chemical Weapons, and Pipeline Vandalism (NATFORCE). Director General of NATFORCE, Dr. Baba Mohammed while welcoming the team in Abuja said, it is a record broken that the agency has a privilege of having Israelis available for the capacity building of its operatives. In a statement which he signed and made available to DAILY POST on Sunday in Abuja, Dr Mohammed, revealed that it is a fulfilment of the agency’s yearning, stating that the job of NATFORCE is a delicate one that all staff need proper training to operate. He said: “The fulfillment derived could not be overemphasized as a long-awaited delegation from Israel finally arrived at NATFORCE Head office on Thursday the 27th of May, 2021. “As part of its technology transfer, NATFORCE in addition to local training arrangements has also initiated and concluded arrangements for comprehensive training of its workforce by ETOS Company, a world-renowned International Security Trainer Organization.” He said the company has trained security personnel across the world including the military, particularly in African continents. In an event to formally receive the team, the Director-General of NATFORCE in his address explained that ETOS Company can offer the Management Team and Operatives of his organization the professional training they deserve. He revealed that a Committee has been set up which comprised experienced military retirees and.serving ones deliberate on the date of training commencement, period of duration, venue as well as logistics needed. NATFORCE boss is optimistic that the training will bring a huge success story to the Federal Government in her bid to combating banditry, illegal arms proliferation, and insurgency in Nigeria. ‘Stop killing innocent people’ – Gov Abiodun tells anti-smuggling taskforce 