Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa yesterday said the agency had recovered $150million from former Petroleum Resources Minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke. Bawa made this known during an interview in a television station on Wednesday. 2. Catholic Bishops in the South East have raised the alarm that Nigeria is in great danger, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to, immediately, adopt a new spirit and approach to governance and issues of security. They made the call after an emergency meeting chaired by Archbishop Anthony Obinna of Owerri Ecclesiastical Province. 3. President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Nigerians to jointly pray against kidnapping, banditry and desperate quest for political power expressed through blackmail against the existence of the country as a united entity. He stated this on Wednesday in a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu. 4. Imo Governor, Hope Uzodimma, yesterday, dissolved his 28-member cabinet, retaining eight commissioners in the first major cabinet shakeup since assuming office on January 15, 2020. 5. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has said the continuous detention of Nollywood actor, Baba Ijesha, is based on legal advice from the Directorate of Public Prosecutions in the state Ministry of Justice. Odumosu stated these in reaction to Wednesday’s protest by Omiyinka’s colleague. 6. Unknown armed men in the early hours of Wednesday attacked the Police Area Command and Division in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, killed one officer and burnt down parts of the stations. 7. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and 11 heads of state, on Wednesday, attended the inauguration of Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni. Museveni was inaugurated for his sixth term. 8. Following the resolution of Tuesday’s meeting of the Southern Governors Forum in Asaba, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday accused the forum of playing politics with the security situation in the south. In a statement by Emmanuel Yawe, ACF faulted the silence of the governors on the activities of IPOB. 9. Three persons, including an infant on Wednesday died in a gas explosion in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Director of Fire Service, Ogun State, Engineer Fatai Adefala, confirmed the incident. 10. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Ali Ndume, has faulted the decision of southern governors to ban open grazing of cattle in the region. Ndume, who represents Borno South in the Senate, spoke with newsmen in Abuja on Wednesday. I caught my wife in bed with her lover – Cleric tells court 