A former Governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala has urged Governor Seyi Makinde of the State to without further delay, investigate what led to the death of a toddler in Ogbomoso on Thursday. DAILY POST had reported how a toddler was allegedly killed on Thursday in Ogbomoso during a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign. The governor who was in Ogbomoso ahead of Saturday’s local government election had said that his convoy was not the one responsible for the death of the deceased. But, Alao-Akala while reacting, called on Makinde to ensure that a thorough investigation is carried out to unravel what led to the death of the toddler. Alao-Akala, a native of Ogbomoso town, also advised Makinde to make the report of the investigation public and that whoever, no matter how highly placed is involved in the killing must be brought to book. He added that the need to ensure justice is necessary in order to serve as deterrent to other reckless drivers. Alao-Akala who doubled as Chairman, Elders Advisory Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State, also appealed to residents of the town to honour the departed soul by remaining calm and peaceful. Alao-Akala in a statement made available to DAILY POST Thursday evening said, “It is with heavy heart that I commiserate with the good people of Ogbomoso and most especially the family of the young, vibrant and energetic young girl that was cut short today. “The sad and unfortunate event is heart wrenching seeing the father of the little girl carrying the lifeless body of his once upon a time go lucky, bubbly little girl in tears and anguish. “I, therefore, call on Gov. Seyi Makinde to ensure that a thorough investigation is carried out on this incident and the findings made public and that whoever, no matter how highly placed is involved in this dastardly act is brought to book and that justice is served accordingly to serve as a deterrent to other reckless drivers. “I share in the pains of the poor father and the bitter memory this sad occurrence has left the good people of Ogbomoso with. “I urge you all to please in honour of the faithful departed remain calm and peaceful as you go about your daily activities and in reverence to the people of Ogbomoso who are worst hit by this sad occurrence, immortalize the memory of the little girl.” Postpone LG election to avoid another legal gymnastics – ex-Oyo Gov, Alao-Akala tells Makinde 