The Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on Wednesday, declared that the Southern Nigeria Governors’ Forum missed the mark in their recommendations towards ending the high level of insecurity across the country. DAILY POST reported that the governors had after their meeting in Delta State recommended among other things, the convocation of a national dialogue, ban on open grazing and state police. But the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization in a statement by Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, its Secretary-General, said any search for solution without the engagement of the angry youths would be futile. He said, “it’s an established fact that the remote causes of secessionist movements include: President Muhammadu Buhari’s nepotistic appointments against principles of federal character, Northern leaders’ refusal for restructuring, marginalization and neglect of Southeast in this regime. “We are, therefore, backing the Southern Governors call for ‘urgent National dialogue’ of all ethnic groups by 1st October 2021 to discuss salient issues and address fundamental questions that will strengthen the faith of Nigerians to reconnect with the leaders that had squandered the people’s trust.” Ohanaeze reminded the Southern Governors that “the neglect of the youths in the post-SARS era and turning blind eye on the proposed ‘FG 75bn END SARS Youth empowerment program’ for the (Southern) Nigerian youths will delay the rehabilitation of the ‘street Army of Youths’, who are now expressing their loss of faith in Nigeria. The time to engage Southern Nigerian Youths is now.” The group, however, lauded the political will, uncommon courage and unity of purpose displayed by the southern Governors’ Forum through their decisions and resolutions at the Asaba meeting. “We describe it as the finest hour for the unification of the peoples of Southern Nigeria to defeat terrorism sponsored by Northern musketeers with evil intent to destabilize the south, based on the earlier warning from US embassy in Abuja, that Northern bandits and killer herdsmen are moving to South to wreak havoc. “Igbos will remain committed to the existence of Nigeria as a nation. “But there should be enforcement of the ban on open grazing by Southern Governors through stiff penalties and sanctions,” he added. Buhari suspends Hadiza Usman, approves panel to probe Nigerian Ports Authority 