The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, Adegboyega Famodun has said the formation of a splinter group within the party was absurd since the constitution of the party does not recognise one. Adegboyega Famodun stated this in Osogbo while fielding questions from journalists against the backdrop of a meeting by ‘The Osun Progressives’ (TOP) group, convened at the Lagos residence of Rauf Aregbesola, former governor of Osun State and now Minister of the Interior. The Osun APC Chairman stressed that political parties operated with rules, regulations and principles guiding the activities of the party. He explained that the constitution of the party did not recognise any splinter group within the APC in any state in the country. Famodun noted that any such political group not registered with the Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC) is an interest group which is understandable if their purpose is to actualise a particular issue peacefully adding that one with a Board of Trustees in an existing political party is not recognised by the laws guiding the party and politics in Nigeria. He also advised that there are mechanisms within the party via which grievances could be addressed, while disbelief in the structures of the party means disqualification as a member of the party. In his words, “You cannot rebel against the constituted authority. There is a name that you call such people.” He warned all those acting outside the control of the existing political party, that disciplinary actions would be taken against them. On the conveyance of the party’s state congress, the Chairman assured that the state arm of the APC was prepared for it since the tenure of the caretaker executive committee in the state would expire by June 2021. Famodun also assured that the local government elections in the state would be held at the appropriate time adding that for primaries for the 2022 gubernatorial election, the party was going to operate within its constitutional provisions.