The Confederation of African Football (CAF) has announced a new team that will lead the work of its standing committees. This follows a proposal by Dr Patrice Motsepe, CAF President, to the CAF Emergency Committee, who, in turn, forwarded the names to the Executive Committee for ratifications. At the recent Executive Committee meeting in Kigali, Rwanda, the following decisions were confirmed: Finance Committee: Mr. Fouzi Lekjaa will continue his mission at the head of the Finance Committee. Lekjaa, President of FRMF (Moroccan Football Federation) and FIFA Council member, will be assisted by Mr. Andrew Kamanga, President of FAZ (Football Association of Zambia), as the vice president. Organising Committee of the Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON): Motsepe will lead the committee with the assistance of two vice-presidents: Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick, President of the Nigerian Football Federation, NFF and Mr. Augustin Emmanuel Senghor, President of the Senegalese Football Federation. Organising Committee of the Total African Nations Championship (CHAN): Building on the success of the recent Total CHAN 2020, organized last January-February in Cameroon, the Acting FECAFOOT President, Seidou Mbombo Njoya, was named head of this committee. FUFA (Uganda) President, Mr. Moses Magogo, will assist him as vice-president. Organising-Committee-of-the-Interclub-Competitions-and-Club-Licensing Interclub Competitions and the Club License management system will be chaired by second CAF vice-President, Mr. Ahmed Yahya, and Mauritania Football President. Mr. Djibrilla Hamidou Hima (Niger Football federation President) and Mr. Maclean Letshwiti (Bostwana Football Association President) have been appointed vice-presidents. This committee manages the CAF Total Champions League, the Total Super Cup, the CAF Total Confederation Cup as well as the new Women’s Champions League in collaboration with the Organizing Committee for Women’s Football. Organising Committee for Youth Competitions: The Youth Football will be overseen by the third CAF Vice-President and President of Djibouti Federation, Mr. Suleiman Waberi. He will be supported by vice-presidents Mr. Moustapha Ishola Raji (Liberia) and Mr. Pierre Alain Mouguengui (Gabon). Women Football Organising Committee: In women’s football, Isha Johansen (Sierra Leone) will hand over the presidency to Kanizat Ibrahim (Comoros). However, the SLFA president continues her mission as vice-president of the committee. Development Committee for Futsal and Beach Soccer: Mr. Sita Sangare, a former FBF President (Burkina Faso) has been appointed president of the Development Committee for Futsal and Beach Soccer. His Vice-President is Mr. Abdiqani Said Arab (Somalia) Committee for Legal Affairs and National Associations: Mr. Augustin Emmanuel Senghor, first CAF Vice-president and also a lawyer, takes charge of the committee. Mr. Elvis Chetty from Seychelles will be vice president. CAF Medical Committee: A new president of the CAF medical committee has been appointed: He is Mr. Wadie Jary, President of the Tunisian Football Federation. The position of vice-president remains temporarily vacant. According to the CAF media channel, President Motsepe is still receiving additional proposals regarding the Refereeing Committee and Technical and Development Committee. Proposal to slash civil servants’ salaries, satanic, ungodly – Osun TUC Chairman 