Pan Nigeria Presidency of Igbo Extraction Coalition (PANPIEC), a sociopolitical group, has criticized governors elected on the platform of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) for their recent position on zoning of the party’s presidential seat ahead of 2023 general elections. DAILY POST reported that governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), had insisted that there would be no zoning ahead of the 2023 general elections and anyone was free to contest for any position. They made this known in a statement signed by their chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, on Friday. “APC belongs to all Nigerians. Everyone, from every part of the country, is free to aspire for any position in the party in line with provisions of our party’s constitution and the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. They added: “Our party, APC, is open, transparent, and will continue to guarantee fair contestation in politics, in line with the overarching commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari and all our founding leaders”. Reacting in a statement signed by the Southeast zonal organizing Secretary of PANPIEC, Comrade Okpara Chinedu and made available to DAILY POST in Umuahia, Saturday, noted that the statement was not the party’s resolution or decision but the view of few ambitious governors of the party. The group posited that the mood of the nation currently favours power shift to the South in general and South East in particular. PANPIEC asked Nigerians to remain calm as their will shall prevail over the will of those who fail to consider the mood of the nation. The sociopolitical organization maintained that it would amount to injustice and betrayal of trust if igbos are denied the opportunity to take its turn in the Nigeria presidency in Abuja by other sections of the country, saying that only Nigeria presidency of Igbo extraction can address myriads of challenges particularly agitations for succession across the country. PANPIEC, however, called on major political parties in the country to zone their presidential ticket to the southeast Igbo extraction in the sake of Justice equity and fairness. 2023: Shifting power to Igbos will end agitations – PANPIEC 