Oyo State Governor, Oluseyi Makinde, on Wednesday, chided the Federal Government for low performance. Makinde, speaking as the special guest at the commissioning of some roads built by Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State at the state capital, Yola, asked Nigerians whether what they are experiencing is what the All Progressives Congress (APC) promised when selling their presidential candidate at campaigns in 2015 and then 2019. “I have heard people say that all parties are the same. But tell them to compare the prosperity under 16 years of PDP to what they have now. The difference is clear,” Makinde said.  Speaking further on the same subject, Makinde said, “We know the change that they promised, we know what we are seeing.” The Oyo State Governor was in Adamawa State to perform the honorary function of cutting tapes to commission projects executed by Governor Fintiri, just like some other governors and other personalities have done and will do as Fintiri continues the project commissioning exercise around the state which started last week and is scheduled to be rounded off on Saturday, May 29. Performing the commissioning of newly reconstructed Weekly Scope Road, Mustapha Ismail Extension, CSC Road,Lekki Taba Street, and Dougeri Lane all in the Jimeta part of Yola, Makinde said Adamawa people made a wise choice in 2019 by lining behind PDP to make Fintiri governor, “considering the worthy projects” that Fintiri has been executing.  He said, “In the PDP we always say that our governors mean business. We believe in infrastructure and development. Those that can’t keep up with our work rates often end up going over to the other side where all they do is offer excuses and shed tears. And we know they will shed more tears in 2023.” The host governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, who spoke earlier during the commissioning ceremony, said his government is doing roads and flyovers at the state capital to upgrade the metropolis and make it the pride of Adamawa people. Adamawa: Fintiri fires back at APC, says, ‘we’ll show them how to run govt’ 