The Leader Of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele has revealed what God told him about the agreement of Southern governors to ban open grazing in the Southern Region. Recall that the Southern governors made this decision some days ago, even though some of their colleagues from the North are not happy with the move. Primate Ayodele, in a statement to DAILY POST on Wednesday, revealed that he foresees betrayal among the southern governors who made the agreement, which will affect the effectiveness of the decision they made. “Southern Governors will betray each other in the consensus to ban open grazing for herders, there will be betrayal among the governors, the decision will not be effective because of this betrayal that I foresee,’’ he said. Continuing, he spoke about the insecurity crisis in the South-East, explaining that Imo State needs to be given serious attention because the crisis in the state is capable of threatening peace in the whole of the South-east. He recalled his statement on Governor Hope Uzodinma, maintaining that until he leaves the governorship position, there won’t be peace in Imo State because the forces of the land are fighting him. ‘’South-east will face serious confusion as the Imo State crisis will keep escalating, there is a need to handle the Imo crisis well because it can lead to unexpected troubles. ‘’As I said before, the Imo crisis is caused by injustice, the governor is not the right person to be there, and as long as he stays there, there will be no peace, the forces of the land are fighting him,’’ he added. Furthermore, the cleric warned against some evil occurrences in Nigeria, while calling the attention of some prominent Nigerians to pray for their health. ‘’Let us pray against helicopter crash in Nigeria ‘’Ibrahim Babaginda, a prominent Oba, An Emir in the north, should pray for their health not to fail, I see death lurking around them as a result of failed health conditions. ‘’More confusion will still engulf Buhari’s government, this is what the Lord showed me,’’ he added.Insecurity. Primate Ayodele releases fresh prophecies on Aso Rock, attack on govt houses, APC, IPOB 