Most of the cars imported to Nigeria are 85% cosmetically repackaged and fixed before selling. What you don’t know you don’t know. Many people trust their mechanics and their car dealers but you will soon be shocked as you read this article from the check car history in Nigeria. We are neither a car dealer nor auctioneer but our company helps the car buyers and the car owners to check the comprehensive vehicle report history of the car they are about to buy or they have bought and help them make a right buying decision. Apart the fact that you might be losing your money to the fraud of most of the car dealers or auctioneers, you also risk of losing money to buy bad cars. We are not here to underrate all the car dealers as we know 20% of them that are trustworthy but 80% of them are not to be trusted. Few days ago a client called that we should help him check the history of a TOYOTA VENZA 2014 because he was offered to buy it for 5 million, we taught about why would someone pay 5 million for TOYOTA VENZA 2014, a car worth 9 million? We quickly asked him to go online to check with its car CHASIS NUMBER on our platform but he said he doesn’t know how to do it (unlearned but rich), he then sent the CHASIS NUMBER and we input it in the search box on our website (www.nairavin.com), behold the car is a SCRAP! Here is the report below As we speak now he calls to thank us all the time and he has referred us to many clients. The good news is that those that already have their car in Nigeria can also check the history report of their used car by using their CHASIS Number, this will prevent you from spending on mechanics all the time (Your mechanic doesn’t like you!). With our report you can even begin to advise your mechanic about the foundational problems of your car so that you don’t keep using PARACETAMOL to CURE CANCER. When you buy a car that has no AIRBAG it’s like sitting on a time bomb that will soon explode. Buying a car with a bad engine or rebuilt engine is like a beautiful house built on a sinking sand or buying a car with a high mileage/odometer that a car dealer have reduced is like driving a car on highway with two eyes closed. Our report will show you the real odometer of your car, our report will show you the number of past USERS of the car from the country where it was manufactured before it was imported into Nigeria, as 35% of those cars imported to Nigeria have been overused by many users. In this case they have put so much mileage/odometer on the car which make the engine weaker because the higher the odometer the weaker the engine will be. And that is why the car dealers will import a recent car to Nigeria and then change the engine in the part market because Nigeria is considered as a dumping ground for all these used vehicles. Our report will also show you the colour of the car from the country of manufacturing and this will show you whether the car dealers have changed the colour or not. This is also helpful if your car is stolen and repainted. Our reports will also tell you whether the car title is clean, salvaged or flooded. Nigerians should look beyond buying cars from the car dealers because they just need a car to drive, while they keep spending money on the mechanics. Your car should serve you for at least four years if you buy a right car. Other than monthly maintenance, your car shouldn’t be a source of indebtedness to you while you are still looking for school fees and money to feed your family. You don’t have to be saving money for fixing your car every month! Anytime you need to buy any car while visiting car dealers please and please ask for the CHASIS NUMBER (The VIN, also known as the Chassis Number, is an exclusive car identification number allotted to your car by the manufacturer. Through the car chassis number, registration authorities use this number to register your car. This exclusive number is a 17-digit number which distinguishes it from other models and makes) About 90% of cars in Nigeria have CHASIS Number but we found out that some car dealers will alter the number so as to deceive you from getting the history. Many people die of ignorance because they do not check the history of their body system. If you go to the doctor for checkup and you complain of malaria, the professional doctor will refer you to go for diagnosis as to detect what the actual problem is instead of just giving you injection directly. The purpose of referring you for diagnosis is to know where to treat you Same as checking your car history. Please check above sample of our report To get started 1. Log on to www.nairavin.com 2. Enter your chassis number in the search box and see a free preview 3. Make payment to view a comprehensive report 4. Provide us your email when making payment and get report instantly in your email. Better to pay a token to get report than to pay huge money to buy a bad car. If you have any question send mail to info@nairavin.com or call 08093185000.