Two fraudsters, Miss. Onuoha Onachi, who claimed to be a graduate of Imo State University awaiting call-up for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), and her lover, Chinedu Okoro, were arrested by the Federal Capital Territory Police Command on Monday for impersonating the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr Muhammad Nami, on Facebook. Abdullahi Ismaila Ahmad, Director, Communications and Liaison Department, FIRS, made this known in a statement available to DAILY POST on Tuesday. He revealed that a team from the Intelligence and Investigation Unit of the FIRS nabbed the duo following a complaint by their victims and thereafter handed the suspects to the police. Okoro, who claimed to have run a failed boutique business, confessed that he took to the crime in March 2020 and created a phantom Director of the service, Alhaji Tanko, to dupe their victims. According to him, he opened two false Facebook accounts in the name of the FIRS chairman and the fictive Alhaji Tanko and populated one of the accounts with pictures of Nami and the other with the internet-generated pictures of an innocent person to stand for Alhaji Tanko. Through an elaborate scheme, Okoro proceeded to present himself to unsuspecting job applicants, whom he directed to one Kayode, who in reality is the female suspect, Miss Onuoha. Speaking as the phantom Kayode, Miss Onuoha then redirected their victims to the fictitious Alhaji Tanko, who in reality is Mr Okoro, the mastermind of the crime. Speaking as Alhaji Tanko, Okoro then confirmed the availability of jobs at a price at the FIRS to the victims who were then cajoled to part with at least 60 percent of a lump-sum to secure their purported slots. Okoro confessed that he charged as much as N350, 000 per victim, while Miss Onuoha admitted to having made N170,000 from the crime before being caught. The suspects also confessed to have impersonated the Head of Service of the Federation to defraud job seekers in the past. They stated that the FIRS chairman knew nothing about their fraudulent activities as they have never met or had any kind of communication with him. FIRS has consistently alerted the public in general to the activities of fraudsters like Okoro and Miss Onuoha through periodic job scam disclaimers published in national dailies and on many online news websites in the country. Fake Army captain, 13 others arrested in Maiduguri 