There is apprehension at the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) secretariate in Osun State as a heavy security presence appear ahead of the LG election scheduled for Tuesday. Operatives of Nigeria Police, men of the Department of State Service (DSS), Civil Defence operatives, Osun State Joint Task Force (JTF) and the Amotekun corps barricaded the NULGE state secretariat in Osogbo. There are speculations that the local government election may not hold over a disagreement among members of NULGE in the state. The State President of NULGE in Osun, Comrade Adeyeye Joseph
had approached the National Industrial Court, Ibadan division on the 23rd of March 2021 seeking an injunction to restrain the union from conducting any sort of election in the Osun State chapter of the union. DAILY POST gathered that Governor Gboyega Oyetola had last month summoned the leadership of NULGE in Osun and the National President, Comrade Ambali Akeem to a meeting to settle their crisis and gave them a three-month ultimatum to hold the election. The national body, with the resolution of the meeting with the governor, picked Tuesday for NULGE local government branch election and scheduled the state election for June. But a faction of the union led by the current President of NULGE in Osun, Adeyeye, whose tenure ended in 2020, insisted that the election will not hold due to a court injunction against NULGE. On Monday, three aspirants for the position of the State President of NULGE, Comrade (Dr.) Alimi Adegboyega Oyediran, Comrade Isafiade Adewuyi and Comrade Tirimisiyu Adedayo Adekunle (D.Y.) withdrew from the election. In a jointly signed statement, the aspirants said they believe that due process for the conduct of the upcoming Local Government Branch Elections has been compromised. ”It is clear as crystal that the election is not and will not be free and fair”, they said The trio claimed they had lost faith in the electioneering process due to “some actions going on in the state of recent.” “The steps taken so far lack genuineness and credibility in its entirety and we are of the firm belief that the outcome of the election, judging from all the surrounding events so far, such as the hurried manner in which the Local Government Branches election is to be conducted and the short time allowed for aspirants to obtain nomination forms and campaign for the elective positions point to the fact that the result of the election is already predetermined and candidates have already been programmed to emerge regardless of the choice of the electorate. “Furthermore, it is now a known fact that the National body of our Union, Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) has been bought by some influential persons in Government, intimidating our members on a daily basis and causing a play down on their choice of candidate in the purported upcoming election. However, the state President of NULGE, Adeyeye while leading a protest to the secretary on Monday made a “No election” order to the members of the union saying “We will not break the law, we will defend the law. That’s our stand.” “My demand from the Governor is for peace to reign, I am giving the Governor my words Immediately the court resume, I will withdraw my case and other aggrieved persons, they should call them and appeal to them and after that probably from end of April to middle of July, the election will probably hold by September. Speaking with a member of the union, a former chairman of NULGE Atakumosa West Local Government, Tola Obembe insisted that the election will hold on Tuesday as directed by the national body. He added that the governor is the state security officer saying that the resolution of the meeting with the governor would be followed. DAILY POST put calls to the National President of NULGE, Com. Ambali. He promised to call back but had not, hours after, as at the time of filing this report. Scrapping of LG: NULGE to occupy NASS members’ homes 