Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, former Governor Of Enugu State, has berated the United States of America for sending its Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, to address President Muhammadu Buhari in a recent meeting instead of Joe Biden himself. Recall that Buhari had met Blinken virtually last Tuesday, where he urged the United States to reconsider relocating US Africa Command (AFRICOM) from Stuttgart, Germany, to Africa. And the Nigerian Government, Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been blamed for Biden’s failure to address the President of Nigeria but Nnamani believes that the US government should be receiving the blames. “There are concerns about the US Secretary of State being the one to address the President of Nigeria and some people are blaming Nigeria, blaming Nigerian government and the foreign affairs,” Nnamani said during an interview on Channels Television. “I believe that what happened was actually a failure of the American foreign policy. It was actually a demonstration of ignorance on the part of the Americans because as I said earlier, Nigeria is the greatest nation in Africa with over 200 million. “Nigeria is the largest economy. Nigeria fought for the liberation of the Southern Africa. Nigeria has fought for the liberation and stabilisation of Sierra Leone, Sudan, Liberia, Somalia. “So I believe it was a failure and ignorance of the American foreign policy that the American President could not relate directly to the President of Nigeria rather,” he said. Nnamani had earlier explained why he believes some individuals would want to fund terrorism against Nigeria, saying, “We cannot underestimate the place of Nigeria in Africa and the world, you are talking about 200 million Africans, largest economy in Africa and largest progressing economy in Africa. “There could be a motivation, an incentive to destabilize Nigeria because by destabilising Nigeria you have greater effect on the progress in Africa and the world over.” Buhari: Osinbajo is not a fool – Bamgbose responds to Keyamo’s rebel claim 