Olusegun Bamgbose, Esq., National Coordinator, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, has described the recent ban on open grazing by governors of the southern region as Bola Tinubu’s Plan B towards achieving his his presidential ambition come 2023. Leaders of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the South West on Sunday met in Lagos State and backed the ban on open grazing by Southern governors. Bola Tinubu, Bisi Akande, Olusegun Osoba and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, were among those who also called for restructuring of the country and the creation of state police. About 17 southern governors had held an emergency meeting in Asaba, Delta State to proffer solutions to increasing security issues in the country and there they announced the ban on open and called for restructuring. And Bamgbose said that Tinubu, as well as other political stakeholders are leaving no stone unturned to actualise their ambitions. “Ashiwaju Bola Tinubu has recently discovered that his chances of winning the APC Presidential ticket are very slim,” he told DAILY POST. “Unknown to many, Tinubu, being an experienced and renowned politician, has decided to come up with plan B in order not to be stranded come 2023. “As a matter of fact, he has decided to support the resolution of the Southern Governors, especially as it concerns the issue of a ban on open grazing. “The likelihood is that the resolution might have the blessings of Tinubu. He won’t want to be on collision course with the Southern Governors as that may spell his political doom come 2023. “He has lately, come to discover that pleasing the North may not be helpful for him to actualise his Presidential ambition come 2023, given the changing political climate and trend. “I will, however, urge Nigerians to do away with APC come 2023 as empowering APC for more four years will be disastrous. “Tinubu lacks the guts and courage to put Nigeria on the right path to greatness. His administration could be worse than that of Buhari. I remain the best option come 2023.” Bamgbose advises Buhari on appointment of new Chief of Army Staff 