The Anambra State government, on Tuesday, said that the deductions being made from salaries of state workers are to stabilise the capital of Ndiolu Micro Finance Bank (NMFB) Limited. Ndiolu Micro Finance Bank, established more than ten years ago, is owned by Anambra State Workers. Mr Harry Udu, Head of Service in Anambra, who briefed newsmen in Awka, said that the deductions were made after due consultation with labour unions. Udu explained that it was rather unfortunate that some opposition political parties were playing politics with the issue. The HoS said the board and management of the bank presented the challenge to stakeholders and leaders of the workforce, after which they agreed that deductions be made according to grade levels to facilitate capitalisation. According to him, the bank was solely owned by workers of Anambra and not the state government as insinuated by the party. He said, “Some parties accused the government of deducting varying percentages from workers’ to recapitalise NMFB in line with the directive of the Central Bank of Nigeria. “The insinuation that the directive for the deductions for recapitalisation was made by Chief Willie Obiano is totally untrue and can only be borne out of political mischief. “Our labour leaders, including the state NLC Chairman, have already rebutted these false politically motivated statements and allegations. “The Service is there to serve any Government that is duly elected, the effort to link these deductions to Obiano is a futile one since the workers know the truth. “It’s also untrue that workers welfare isn’t receiving adequate attention because governor Obiano is one of the best in that regard. “We plead with political leaders not to waste time and effort in trying to introduce acrimony between the governor and workers as the cordial relation has lasted for seven years.” The Head of Service was flanked by the management team of the bank and representatives of NLC and TUC during the briefing. Strike action grounds academic activities in AAU, Ekpoma 