Ahead of the congress of the All Progressives Congress, APC, members of the party in Enugu West Senatorial Zone of Enugu State have urged party faithfuls to respect the zoning arrangement already put in place. The Party in the zone spoke during a meeting by the Caretaker chairmen and Secretaries in the area where they hailed the Party in the State for taking a bold step to zone the leadership positions ahead of the congress. They said they were delighted with the decision by the State Caretaker Committee headed by Dr. Ben Nwoyey to zone the chairmanship position in the forthcoming Congress to Enugu West Senatorial Zone. They noted that “that was in tandem with the original zoning arrangement agreed upon by the founding fathers of the Party in Enugu State after the merger of the legacy parties.” The meeting, hosted by the Caretaker Chairman of Oji-River LGA and chairman of chairmen, Chief Benson Eze (Onwa), noted that by the zoning arrangement, the State Caretaker “has reduced the rancour that would have been associated with the Congress.” It had in attendance all Enugu West Zonal Caretaker Executives of the party and many Stakeholders from the zone. Some of the members in attendance were: Chief Benson Eze (chairman, Oji-river LGA), Hon. Henry Ikenna Umeh (chairman, Awgu LGA), Chief Jude Anyadibe, (chairman Udi LGA), Hon. Emeka Eze (chairman, Aninri LGA), Hon. Tobechukwu Nzekwe (chairman, Ezeagu LGA), Chief Timothy Aro (Secretary, Oji- River). Others were Comrade Stephen Chukwuorji (Secretary, Awgu LGA), Chief Ebubeagu Felix Okafor ( Secretary, Udi LGA), Hon. Paul Chigbo (Secretary, Ezeagu LGA), Hon. Chuks Adibe (State Treasurer) and many other stakeholders. They appealed to other zones and members of the party in Enugu State to respect the zoning arrangement, adding that it would assist in reducing tension and free-for-all scrambles during the State Congress. It would be recalled that the State Caretaker Committee had earlier zoned the Governorship ticket of the party to the Enugu East senatorial zone and the chairmanship position to the Enugu West Senatorial Zone. 2023: APC denies zoning presidency to Southern Nigeria 