Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The House of Representatives, yesterday, resolved to probe the N91.5billion contracts for the rehabilitation of 1443kilometre of the Port Harcourt–Maiduguri section of the eastern rail line. This followed the adoption of a motion sponsored by Mzondu Bem. 2. Bandits on rampage, yesterday, killed no fewer than 12 persons, while 21 people were abducted in fresh attacks of some communities in Kaduna and Katsina states. Police commands in both states confirmed the attacks. 3. The Senate, yesterday, considered a bill that seeks to prohibit the payment and receipt of ransom for the release of any person kidnapped, imprisoned or wrongfully confined. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which scaled second reading during plenary is sponsored by Ezenwa Francis Onyewuchi. 4. The Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, yesterday, suspended the five-day warning strike in Kaduna State. The NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said the move was to honour the invitation of the Federal Government on Thursday (today). 5. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, yesterday, revealed that the new national carrier will commence operation in the first quarter of 2022. He spoke with State House correspondents on Wednesday after the weekly Federal Executive Council meeting in Abuja. 6. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has said taxation was one of the ways to raise revenue to effectively run the government and provide social services to the people. He spoke at the Annual Tax Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation on Wednesday. 7. President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, assured Nigerians of his government’s commitment towards free and fair elections in the country. He gave the assurance during an interactive session with some Nigerians in Paris, France, on Wednesday. 8. The Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai, has accused his fellow governors of abandoning his administration in its face-off with the Nigeria Labour Congress. El-Rufai said this during a virtual meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum on Wednesday. 8. The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has stated that the series of attacks on the Commission’s facilities may undermine the capacity to organise elections and dent the nation’s electoral process. Yakubu stated this in a statement shared by INEC’S official Twitter handle @inecnigeria. 9. President Muhammadu Buhari has urged countries in Europe and multilateral lenders to consider the restructuring of debt portfolios of African countries as a full relief towards helping them tackle the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The president made the case on Tuesday at the Financing Africa Summit in Paris. 10. Men of the Nigeria Customs Service, Ogun 1 Area Command, have seized an articulated vehicle loaded with 600 bags of 50kg foreign parboiled rice belonging to Dangote Cement Company. The Customs Area Controller, Peter Kolo, disclosed this on Wednesday. Nigerian Newspapers: 10 things you need to know this Wednesday morning 