President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians of his government’s commitment towards a free and fair elections. Buhari explaining that his administration would not interfer with future elections in Nigeria. He stated that the bedrock of democracy remains sustenance of the multi-party structure, with trust from citizens. The president gave the assurance during an interactive session with some Nigerians in Paris, France, on Wednesday, and was contained in a statement by his spokesman, Garba Shehu. Buhari noted that results from elections since he assumed office had been a mixed bag, with the people’s choice playing out, promising to keep the template that had brought more credibility to the electoral process. He said: “Free and fair election is a great concern. In the last elections, our party lost in some elections and it reflects our position of non-interference. “Normally those in power will win by hook or by crook. We believe in free and fair elections. I have respect for Nigerians to choose their leaders. We have shown we respect our citizens by allowing them to choose their leaders. “We gave instructions to security to deal with anyone who uses thugs to disrupt electoral processes. What I can assure you is that you can walk about and around with your head raised high that this administration is committed to a multi-party system.” President Buhari said he had watched Nigerians spend long hours in campaigns listening to candidates since 2003, 2007, 2011, when he contested elections and lost, and 2015 and 2019 presidential elections, which he won. “Nigerians deserve respect. I have suffered before, so I know what it means. My duty is to serve Nigeria and Nigerians with all my heart. I assure that in spite of the ill luck, with a drop in resources, we will do our best,’’ he added. The President said investments had been channelled into the agricultural sector, with visible results, explaining that the policy on border closure to neighbouring countries was to protect the economy and improve security. “The future of Nigeria is in agriculture,’’ he noted. Adamawa State to have 4,104 polling units during 2023 general elections 