Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Rauf Olaniyan has appealed to journalists in the state not to crucify the Governor Seyi Makinde led administration. Olaniyan who spoke on Saturday night while addressing journalists appealed to them to criticize the government constructively. The Deputy Governor during the breaking of fast with journalists insisted that many things would have gone wrong if newsmen were not available to be the watchdogs of the society. The press men were led by Chairman, Oyo State Council of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Alhaji Ademola Babalola. He added that things would have gone worse more than it is if journalists were not there to keep the government on its toes. He, however, appealed to members of the union to write stories about the state government truthfully and not to mislead the public. Olaniyan said, “Do not crucify us, criticize us constructively so that we can make amendments. Let journalists write in the way it is. I thank all of you. We have been together. “Many things would have gone wrong if journalists are not available to be the watchdog of the society. If you are not around to be the watchdogs of the society, things would have gone worse than this.” Olaniyan also lauded the effort of journalists toward the development of the society, saying as the fourth estate of the realm, their role was crucial to nation building. He added that the emergence of the present administration in the state led by Makinde remained a big surprise to some people, particularly the opposition parties. He stated that prior to the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state, nobody could believe that Makinde could win the election, adding that their victory came as a surprise to the opposition. “They told us that we have never held any political office before, so it will be difficult for us to win the election, I told them that they are going to see a surprise and the surprise eventually happened when we won. “I have been in public service for over 28 years, I have different experiences, and all these experiences I gathered in 28 years has gone beyond politics.” Nigeria will outlive everyone of us – Aregbesola 