Former presidential aide, Reno Omokri has reacted to allegation that he’s engaging in extramarital sex affair with a UK lover. A report making the rounds on social media said the controversial former aide allegedly abandoned his wife in America while welcoming new baby with a UK-based lover. The Publication also claimed that Reno who is still married to his wife Tope went ahead to welcome his fourth child with his lover in the UK outside his marriage. Reacting, the former aide in a statement released on Monday night, debunked the news. He also blamed elements in the Buhari-led administration for being behind the false allegations, adding that the news started flying the moment he declared his intention to convene #Harass Buhari Out of Paris peaceful protest. “I just read the scandalous story about me, that I will not even want to repeat. “A Nigerian proverb says the bird flew at night, and the baby died in the morning. “The story is false. If you look at the platform that originally carried the story, it becomes obvious that it is being sponsored by the Presidency, to distract me from going to Paris, because they know that the Africa-France summit is an international platform and any protest will highlight the failures of General Buhari. “I have never and can never engage in premarital or extramarital sex. I abhor it. God forbid! “On a normal day I would never bother to even respond to such a malicious attack on me by the Buhari administration. And I will not be baited to talk about private family issues publicly. Suffice to say that I have never had, and will never have a child out of wedlock. “To me, it is best ignored because the devil is a known liar, and that is who has inspired those behind this story. “Nobody can break my focus. After we are done with the Paris protest, my lawyers and I will sit down to decide if and when we should sue,” he said. Recall that Omokri earlier called on Nigerians to join him in a protest in Paris, the capital of France on Tuesday, to ‘harass’ President Muhammadu Buhari back to Nigeria. He urged Nigerians in Paris to converge at the Temporary Exhibition Centre, in front of the Eiffel Tower on Tuesday for a peaceful protest.