Good morning! Here is today’s summary from Nigerian Newspapers: 1. The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has declared Gimba Yau Kumo, a son-in-law of President Muhammadu Buhari, wanted over an alleged $65 million fraud. This was contained in a statement on Thursday by Azuka Ogugua, spokesperson of the anti-graft commission. 2. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday, applauded the decision of the southern governors to ban open grazing, saying any Nigerian opposed to their position has a hidden agenda. The governor stated this at Holy Ghost Parish Hall, during the ‘Media Week and Communications Day 2021’. 3. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, blamed the delay in supply of military hardware by manufacturers for the handicap the administration is facing in fighting Boko Haram, bandits and other violent crimes in the country. He stated this shortly after observing the Eid prayer at Aso Villa, Abuja, yesterday. 4. Gunmen continued their attack on police formations and other facilities in Abia State on Thursday morning, when they razed parts of Bende Local Government Area headquarters and the adjourning police station. Spokesman of the state command, SP Godfrey Ogbonna confirmed the attacks. 5. Ohanaeze Ndigbo yesterday, advised Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to ignore the rumour that members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) are plotting to attack Lagos. The President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ambassador (Prof.) George Obiozor gave the advice during a courtesy visit to the governor. 6. Former governor of Oyo State, Rashidi Ladoja, yesterday, said it is not only the South West and South East that are agitating for self-determination, alleging the northern part of the country is also preparing to leave. He made the disclosure in an interview with newsmen in his house at Bodija, Ibadan. 7. Imo Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has assured northerners living in the state of their safety despite security challenges witnessed in recent weeks. The governor gave the assurance, yesterday, in a speech to commemorate the Eid-el-Fitr celebration. 8. The Federal Government stated on Thursday that two million doses of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine have been reserved for the second dose in the first phase of vaccination. The Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, made this known yesterday. 9. UEFA yesterday confirmed that the 2021 Champions League final will now take place at Estadio do Dragao in Porto, with 12,000 Chelsea and Manchester City supporters set to be in attendance. This was contained in an official statement from UEFA on Thursday. 10. President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday, hailed the performance of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), and promised to ensure that his administration works on measures to boost the operational capabilities. National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (retd) disclosed this yesterday. Kidnapping, banditry not federal offences in Nigeria – Buhari govt 