The Osun State Government has said it was imperative to celebrate and recognise children as important members of the society on whose shoulders the hope, aspirations and vision of the society rests. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola made this known Thursday during his speech to commemorate the year 2021 Children’s Day celebration in Osogbo. He revealed that children were invaluable stakeholders whose voice mattered in the collective drive to take the state to greater heights. The state governor noted that children were the strategic inspiration behind the commitment to building a peaceful, progressive and forward-looking state. He revealed that the state will continue to prioritise education and pay attention to the welfare of teachers, a move that has received an eighteen percent vote in the state’s 2021 budget. Oyetola advised the children to stay away from illicit drugs, cultism, negative influences and the excessive use of social media. Earlier, the state Commissioner for Women, Children and Social Affairs, Olubukola Olaboopo warned all perpetrators of evil and abuse against children to desist from such or stay away from Osun State She warned that the state has been declared a danger zone for violators of children. She also appealed to parents, teachers, guardians to always monitor their children and wards and also invest in them to secure their future. Olaboopo advised parents to be conscious of their children’s safety arguing that leaving them in the care of friends and relatives is not always the best option. She explained that the Children’s Day event is often held to celebrate the existence of children and highlight the challenges facing them and ensure they enjoy peace. In line with the theme of the year 2021 celebration, ‘unite to reverse the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on children, she said it was disheartening to know that many children were traumatised due to the loss of their parents and the lockdown. The Commissioner added that despite all these setbacks, the state broke the record of being the most children-friendly state in the country in 2020. NLC makes fresh demands from Nigerian govt 