The weekend is here with us again and to ensure huge winnings, Mozzart Bet is offering the world’s highest odds in Barcelona, Borussia Dortmund, Cologne and Fiorentina matches this Saturday. Barcelona win against Eibar, odds 1.78 Barcelona take on already-relegated Eibar in the final game of the season with a win set to guarantee them a finish in the top three. Despite being without Lionel Messi for the final home game, Barcelona have the most potent attack in the league scoring a massive 84 goals this season. Eibar have the worst home record in La Liga this season, picking up just 13 points from 18 matches, recording only two victories. Kickoff: 5 PM (WAT) Borussia Dortmund win against Bayer Leverkusen, odds 1.60 Borussia Dortmund are currently the most in-form side in the Bundesliga having won six consecutive league games and also recently won the DFB Pokal against RB Leipzig. Dortmund are the second-highest scoring at home in the Bundesliga having scored 37 goals at the Signal Iduna Park. Bayer Leverkusen have nothing to play for having secured a UEFA Europa League place, and regardless of the result here they will stay in sixth place. Kickoff: 2:30 PM (WAT) Cologne win against Schalke, odds 1.45 A win for Cologne against already relegated Schalke can prolong their stay in the Bundesliga for another season depending on results elsewhere. Schalke have had a torrid season and have a leaky defense that has now conceded 85 league goals, the second-worst backline across Europe’s top-five divisions. Schalke have been poor in their away games and have the worst return across Europe’s top-five leagues as they are still hunting a win on the road Kickoff: 2:30 PM (WAT) Fiorentina win against Crotone, odds 1.98 Crotone are yet to keep a Serie A clean sheet at home and have conceded two or more goals in 12 games this season. Crotone and Fiorentina have played five games against each other. Fiorentina have won three matches, while Crotone have won a single game. Fiorentina will want to win for only the fourth time outside Florence this term and avoid ending a season with fewer than 40 points for the first time in 20 years. Kickoff: 7:45 PM (WAT) MOZZART BET, Make a decision!