South West Zonal Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja, has declared that the All Progressives Congress (APC) sidelined itself by boycotting the local government election in the state. Arapaja, a former Deputy Governor of the state, made this disclosure while addressing journalists shortly after casting his vote at the local government election which took place on Saturday. Arapaja, who spoke in Ibadan, maintained that it was the APC that dribbled itself and shot a goal on its own goalpost. He, however, described the election as ‘very credible and perfect’. He added that there has never been an election as peaceful, as this in the history of Oyo state. Arapaja said, “It is like shooting yourself in the legs. When you are claiming you are smart. You start dribbling yourself. You dribble yourself and you scored, and you scored in your own goalpost. “So, they dribbled themselves so, they scored against themselves. They sidelined themselves. They are the one that sidelined themselves. “As you can see, people are happy with the way the election is going smoothly. The policy of the Executive Governor of the state, Engr. Seyi Makinde is people friendly. “And we chose the chairmen, the candidates of our choice to be at the local government level, the councillors will be there and all the policies of the state government will be disseminated to the grassroot and everybody will be accessible to the dividends of democracy.” Arapaja described the decision of APC to boycott the council poll as a welcome development. He said “It is like shooting themselves in the leg, because when you think you are too smart, you will start dribbling, eventually you dribble yourself, until you score against yourself .” According to him, the absence of the APC in the election, is good for the PDP after sidelining themselves and making the whole election free and hundred percent victory for PDP. Vice Chairmanship candidate for Ibadan South West Local Government, Hon. Tajudeen Adigun Adeniyi, who spoke with journalists at Agbokojo area, also expressed delight with the conduct of the election. He described the election as most peaceful, free and fair.