The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA, has threatened to drag President Muhammadu Buhari to International Court over the alleged killing of members of the Eastern Security Network, which was established by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu to check the incessant crisis between the killer herdsmen and the farmers in the region. HURIWA accused the Nigerian Army and the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma of planning to crush the ESN from the region to pave way for the Fulani herders. In a statement forwarded to DAILY POST on Tuesday, the Rights group urged President Buhari to Immediately arrest the spokesman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association for publicly threatening to launch attacks on the Igbos. “The idea of crushing an initiative set up by the youths to safe-guard strange-looking from violent attacks by strange looking armed Fulani herdsmen and also not deploying soldiers to go after the armed Fulani herdsmen attacking South East of Nigeria goes to show that President Muhammadu Buhari is personally responsible and can be dragged to the International Criminal Court in The Hague Netherlands since he is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. “It makes no sense crushing a well-intentioned vigilante initial set up by the young people of South East to stop the incessant rapes of their mothers and sisters by Armed Fulani herdsmen and the attendant killings, maiming and destruction whereas in the North East there’s a similar initiative called civilian-JTF. This is pure apartheid “. “HURIWA is overwhelmed with angst that despite our warning urging President Muhammadu Buhari not to sit by in Abuja and allow the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association carry through its threat against Anambra and South East of Nigeria, President Buhari has allowed the reprisals to take place even when the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate murders two weeks ago of scores of Fulanis is uncertain. “If the spokesman of the group is not arrested within 48 hours, the Rights organisation will compile a new petition to the International Criminal Court in The Hague Netherlands so the global court could order the arrest and prosecution of Muhammadu Buhari for crimes against humanity. HURIWA urged Governors of the South-East of Nigeria to ask President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the illegal “onslaught and massive military action against the Eastern Security Network”. IDOMATV recalls that Pastor Dare died in his sleep at the age of 42 in Eket, Akwa Ibom on Thursday and was buried today. In a short message to the body of Christ shortly after the burial of his son, Pastor Adeboye urged Christians always be prepared as God does not need a visa to visit anyone. Buhari undermining Igbo officers for top security job in Southeast – HURIWA 