The Bayelsa State Police Command has confirmed the gruesome murder of a middle-aged man in Sagbama Local Government Area of the state. The deceased, with names withheld, was allegedly killed and dumped in the bush by his roommate, 34-year-old Okpegboro Avwerosuo from Ughelli North, Delta State. Some youths of the area under the aegis of SALGA Federated Youth Council (SFYC) worldwide, reportedly discovered the decomposing parts of the deceased. A Facebook post, signed by the Publicity Secretary of the group, Comr. Febabor Michael Kelvin, stated that “Just yesterday, the decomposing body of a young man was discovered in the bush by well-meaning Salgarians with several parts of the body already butchered into pieces and placed on sack bags” The Nigerian Police, Sagbama Division, was alerted and it led to the arrest of a young man resident in Sagbama, suspected to have been the perpetrator of the ungodly act. “The President of Salga Federated Youth Council Worldwide, Comr. Preye Keku Casey, condemned in strong terms, the gruesome killing of a young man alleged to have been murdered by his roommates in Sagbama community, headquarters of Sagbama Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. The President, while condemning the act, called on Sagbama youths to be very careful and vigilant as they go about their normal activities, especially in the wake of the rising insecurity level in the country. He urged Salgarians to be careful of the places they visit, those they associate with and keep as friends, and as well limit the time at which they keep late nights. He commended the youths of Sagbama community for not taking laws into their hands, and for the prompt and civilized manner with which they handled the issue. He, therefore, charged the security agencies to ensure that proper investigations be made in order to unmask those behind the murder of the young man, and ensure the arrest and prosecution of everyone involved in the act, and as well, ensure that the people of Sagbama are protected from heartless blood seekers, so as to avert such ugly incidence anywhere around Sagbama Local Government Area. Comr. Casey Keku, concluded by advising the youths of Sagbama LGA to be more security conscious and prayerful. He noted that the issue of security of lives and properties should not be left in the hands of the security agencies alone, rather, a collective and unifying effort from the communities and the security agencies would produce a faster result in the fight against insecurity. The state’s Police Public Relation Officer, SP Asinim Butwats, in a response confirmed the killing and said the suspect Avwerosuo has been detained at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for further investigation. The name of the victim is yet unknown. Ebonyi killings: Ohanaeze gives FG, security agencies 14-day ultimatum to produce herdsmen 