A legal practitioner, Kayode Ajulo has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to prove he is in charge of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Ajulo said it was high time the President addressed the nation on the worrisome security challenges facing it. He made the call in a statement in reaction to the Southern Governors’ ban on open grazing. “There is an insinuation that some cabals within the corridors of power are the ones ruling the country while the President is sitting at the rear, distant from the ruled. “Section 5 of the 1999 Constitution has placed the executive powers of the Federation in the hands of the President and he must take the bull by its horn.” Ajulo noted that the issues addressed by the governors are not unusual as they represent the agitations of the citizens. He said everyone with a right-thinking mind should commend them for presenting a common front seeking a lasting amelioration to the spate of insecurity. Ajulo condemned the divide-and-rule tactics in government and among the political class. He stressed that the actions and utterances of some sections lent credence to the unfortunate tribalisation of issues in Nigeria. “It is an open secret that the herdsmen-farmers crisis in the Southern part is one of the underlying issues of insecurity in Nigeria. Placing a ban on open grazing will keep at bay the incessancy of the crisis. “Secondly, the level of interaction between individual ethnic groups, cultures, traditions, religions from different backgrounds has translated into ethnic and political misunderstanding and crises. “There are fears, suspicions, intolerance, grieves and greed domination among most communities in the country and especially in the North which has so many ethnic minorities.” Ajulo demanded that the principle of ‘Federal Character’ recognised by the 1999 Constitution be respected to ensure the participation of persons from all ethnic groups in government. “Thirdly, on the issue of the need to reflect true federalism, there is at present widespread discontent with the country’s federal structure and arrangements.” The lawyer said all the constitutional, political and judicial aspects of the federal system need to be openly discussed, including revenue allocations from the Federation Account. Ajulo further advocated the creation of state police. He said the 1999 Nigerian Constitution should be amended to give states the leverage to create their own police for better efficiency. Nigerian govt asked to recruit retired military, paramilitary personnel 