The National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, NANNM, has refuted claims that its members discharged patients from the hospital and removed oxygen from a two-day-old baby. According to the association, “No member of NANNM in Kaduna state has ever either in the past or present discharged any patient during any union action and even in the present allegation of discharge of patients in Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital (BDTH), the nurses did not discharge any patient. The patients left on their own considering the fact that services were withdrawn.” Comrade Nurse Ishaku Yakubu, Chairman, NANNM, Kaduna state council, in a statement that the accusation of their members removing oxygen from a two-day-old baby is unfounded and misleading to the public. It explained that the investigations carried out by the union have revealed how the nurse on duty helped to plead with the generator plant technician to allow the light in the hospital as a patient was on oxygen and to allow for the transfer of the same patient in the morning as the strike was to start at midnight of May 15, 2021. It noted that contrary to the allegations and false statements the nurse went extra miles to ensure the safety of the child and other patients, as it is known of nurses. It said that the investigations carried out by the association also revealed that the baby is alive and doing well in one of the private facilities in Kaduna town, stressing that videos of the interview with the mother of the baby and of the private hospital are available and will be made available to the media. The union said that it shall take decisive action against the perpetrators of the malicious and incisive allegations. The association informed Nigerians that the image of the nurse has been battered and these allegations are aimed at further discrediting and tarnishing the image and reputation of the nurses and the nursing profession, describing the action as rather unfortunate and called on everyone to disregard the malicious and unfounded allegations. It observed that the mass sack of nurses in Kaduna state from level 14 below is aimed at dividing the nurses and playing the “divide and rule” game, saying that all nurses are part of this action as well as other health professionals and wondered why single out nurses if not an attempt to divide the unity they share. The association called on the Kaduna state government to conserve the energy they are using now to fight nurses and use the same to secure the release of two of our nurses who have been in the hands of kidnappers for the past 30 days. According to the association, “They were taken at their duty post as government workers and the kidnappers are making huge demands as ransom.” The association assured the citizens of the state that they are committed to the provision of health care services to the public and to ensure they get the best, lamenting that if the work force is unfairly treated then the best cannot be achieved. El-Rufai fires nurses 