A former Governor of Oyo State, Chief Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala, has advised the incumbent Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, to without wasting more time, postpone the forthcoming local government election in the state. DAILY POST recalls that the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) had fixed Saturday, May 22nd 2021 as the date for the conduct of local government election in the thirty-three (33) local government areas of the state. Alao-Akala has, however, urged Makinde to postpone the poll. The former governor said that the need to postpone the election became necessary in view of the Friday’s supreme court judgement, which faulted the dissolution of the chairmen who were elected during the tenure of the immediate past governor of the state, late Abiola Ajimobi. Our correspondent learnt that Supreme Court had declared the removal of the local government chairmen elected on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2018 as null and void. The Court also awarded the sum of twenty million naira (N20m) against Oyo State Government. The Court also urged Makinde to pay all the entitlements including salaries and allowances to all the sacked council bosses between now and August 2021. Alao-Akala in his reaction, advised Makinde to postpone the election to a later date in order to protect the sanctity of our evolving democracy. Alao-Akala, who doubles as Chairman, Elders Advisory Council of the All Progressives Congress, in the statement, noted that the need to postpone the election is necessary in order to avoid another round of legal battle in the state. He advised Makinde to sit with the OYSIEC on how to postpone the election to a later date. Alao-Akala while speaking further maintained that Makinde should use the opportunity of the Court judgement to correct his past mistakes. “Going on with the local government election as earlier scheduled will throw the state into another round of legal gymnastics. My advice to him is to sit down with the OYSIEC officials, look in to the new development and do the needful which is to shift the election date. “Fortunately, the Oyo state Independent electoral Commission chairman is a Learned fellow. “He know what the law says as regards disenfranchisement, he know what the constitution say about holding elections and he knows the consequences of holding a one sided election. “Apart from that, both the Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde and the OYSIEC chairman have a name to protect now and in the future of the development of our democracy in Nigeria. “This is an opportunity for Engr. Seyi Makinde to correct his past mistakes. He should not commit another blunder by going on with that election which I am hundred per cent certain will be faulted again by the constitution, the electoral act and the judiciary.”