The Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has charged the 2021 Batch A Stream II corps members deployed to the state to embrace one another’s uniqueness. Represented by the Osun State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Ayodele Adegoke, at a low-key swearing-in ceremony held at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, Ede, Fridays, the governor explained that all the corps members present have diverse cultural orientations and beliefs. Oyetola contended that each corps member must strive to harness the strength in their diversity and similarity so that the country can make progress. While urging the corps members to always channel their grievances through the right channels and not to take laws into their hands or become unruly in their behaviour, he charged them to obey the code of conduct and be disciplined, friendly, patriotic and law abiding. The governor stated that the duties of the corps member is to unite and integrate the nation, cooperate with all associated with the scheme, emulate good hygiene and above all obey rules and regulations. “The programme was designed to familiarise corps members with their state of deployment and to also instil the ideals of the NYSC scheme and to prepare them adequately for the service year.” The Oath of Allegiance was administered on the corps members by Justice Raheem Akanbi who represented the Osun State Chief Judge, Justice Oyebola Adepele Ojo. One thousand and six hundred (1,600) corps members were deployed to the state while an additional three hundred (300) dislodged from the Lagos orientation camp due to COVID-19 protocol were part of the oath taking ceremony. In all, a total of one thousand and nine hundred (1,900) corps members were sworn in Osun. Earlier, the Osun NYSC state coordinator has tasked the corps members to embrace the various opportunities presented by the scheme in order to become self-reliant, disciplined and productive. He advised them to observe strict hygiene and ensure total compliance with the COVID-19 protocols.