It was a tale of woes as a family of four suspected victims killed by police narrated their ordeal to the judicial panel of inquiry investigating rights abuses in Taraba State. During the sitting of the panel on Monday, the audience could not hold back tears as they listened to stories on how the youths were brutally killed by the police. Standing before the Christopher Awubra led panel to testify on behalf of the family of the victims, Kabiru Jubril Abdullahi, said the incident which occurred in February 2014, was caused by the vigilante group. He said, “a team of vigilante led by one Sani Abdullahi invited our brothers on a telephone to appear before them to discuss and resolve some issues.” ”On sighting them, the vigilante did not only arrested them but beat them before handing them over to the men of the defunct Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) whom he alleged ended up killing them” he narrated. The suspects, he said “were handed over to SARS, who he said searched the victims’ houses and found nothing incriminating. Rather than releasing them on bail, the SARS, as claimed by the petitioner went ahead to kill them. Armed with a picture of the bodies of the four victims, Awubra said their bodies were riddled with bullets as they lay in the pools of their blood when they were brought to the Moslems graveyard in Jalingo metropolis by SARS for burial. The family who are now demanding compensation of the sum of N800 million, said the killing of the young people who were aged thirteen and eighteen, have ignited negative effects on the entire members of the family. Saddened by the development, the counsel to the petitioner, Suleiman Sani Dikko, pleaded with the panel to consider the demands of the family. Citing Section 33 (1) and 36 (5) of the 1999 constitution, he said could not fathom why the police decided to cut short the lives of the suspects without regards to their rights to life as enshrined in the aforementioned sections of the constitution. He said “the police or SARS don’t have the constitutional right to try any person suspected of committing an offence or even order the execution or killing of any suspect without being properly arraigned before a court of competent. The family, who are demanding millions of naira in compensation, also pleaded with the Justice Christopher Awubra-led team to ensure that their case is fairly treated and the culprits brought to justice. End SARS: 5 years after, police to exhume body of man who died in Ogun SARS custody 