Infinix today unveiled the all-new Hot 10T Series the highly anticipated gaming and entertainment smartphone addition to the Hot 10 portfolio. The Infinix Hot 10T sets a new standard for power, innovation and style by combining sophisticated processing technologies with long-lasting battery performance, a triple camera with Super Nightscape imaging and an ultra-smooth display, encased in a stunning design inspired by nature. The Hot 10T Series features Infinix’s powerful Dar-link optimization engine software, which improves graphic display and touchscreen sensitivity with self-learning AI algorithm capabilities that minimize lag time. With more than 2.7 billion mobile gamers expected by 2023, the Hot 10T smartphone is equipped with a MediaTek Helio G70 chipset to meet the increasing demand for enhanced gaming experiences.  “When designing the Hot 10T Series, our goal was to set standards for mobile entertainment,” said [Manfred Hong, Senior Product Director] of Infinix. “Every aspect of the Hot 10T Series has been carefully crafted to deliver the ultimate user experience – from MediaTek’s excellent Helio G70 chipset processing power, to the smooth and highly responsive display and optimized battery for non-stop, undisrupted viewing and playing.” Taking innovation one step further The Hot 10T Series balances innovative and stunning design with excellent features and functionality to deliver the best visual experience for consumers at an affordable price: · Upgraded Design: The Hot 10T adopts pioneering Laser Micron Lithography Technology to create a beautiful shimmer appearance that draws inspiration from the Salar de Uyuni in Bolivia. With smooth-edges and an under-display selfie camera, the Hot 10T is a highly recommended gaming and entertainment device. · Buttery-Smooth Display: Boasting a cutting-edge 6.82” HD+ display with 90Hz refresh rate, consumers gain a brilliant viewing experience when watching the latest CGI visual effects. The 180Hz touch sampling rate delivers optimal responsiveness and the intuitive facial recognition enables faster, safer and more convenient device unlocking. · Triple 48MP HD Camera with AI: For the first time within the HOT portfolio, the Hot 10T packs a 48MP HD rear camera, an AI camera and a 2MP depth camera with rear Flash. The all-new Super Nightscape feature enables users to take impressive pictures in dark/low-light scenarios while the 2K resolution video recording captures authentic true-to-life footage. · MediaTek Helio G70 Chipset: This chipset packs a powerful performance while maximizing battery life for a superior gaming experience. Leveraging innovative dynamic resource management technology, the connectivity powered by MediaTek’s Helio G70 brings faster response times and quicker frame rates. Furthermore, this results in consistent & reliable connectivity which significantly reduces lag time. · A 5000mAh Battery: The impressive battery offers 76 hours of calling time on a single charge. Enhanced by power-saving Power Marathon technology that provides an additional 25% power once the battery runs down to 5%, gamers no longer need to think about dreaded battery shutdowns when playing, or embarrassing low battery notifications on video calls. · Advanced Software: The DTS Audio processing technology helps elevate sound effects during gameplay. Users can customize the sound effects for better sound quality experiences in games, music and movies. The Infinix XO7.6 is based on Android 11 with a fresh and smarter interface than its predecessor. · Dar-link Ultimate Game Booster: The Hot 10T incorporates Infinix’s optimization engine software, the Dar-link Ultimate Game Booster, which works with the smartphone’s hardware to improve the graphic image stability and screen sensitivity. · Secured User Privacy: With user data protection and privacy as a priority, two key systems have been implemented into the Hot 10T. X-Proof secures the screen from behind so that user’s screens won’t be snooped on in public, furthermore, all user data on the device stays on the device and is never uploaded to the cloud. In an era when privacy is more prevalent than ever, Infinix has taken extra steps to fully secure it.