The joint meeting of Service Chiefs with the Senators is holding behind close-doors. The Service Chiefs and other top security agents including the Acting Inspector General of Police, are expecting to discuss in details challenges faced by the forces in tackling insecurity in Nigeria. Before the meeting was declared close-doors, Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan assured the guests to the Senate Chambers of their readiness to look into their challenges. In his address, he said: “You recall our resolution to invite them for briefing on security situation in our dear country. “On behalf of all of us Senators, I want to welcome this team and let me quickly assure all of you that indeed this Senate or the entire National Assembly is and will remain a partner in progress with you. “On behalf of my colleagues, I want to commend our armed forces and other security agencies for fighting the myriad of security challenges across the country. “In the process, some have given up their lives. “We appreciate what you are doing because we know that you are doing your best with what you have at hand. “I want to assure you and everyone that the challenges we face are taken seriously and extremely by the Parliament. “Hardly a day passes without this Senate discussing one security incident or the other. And it has been so for many years, not only this session. “Once again, I welcome you and trust us with what you think will help us as a parliament to help the cause of Armed forces and other security agencies to perform better because you haven’t achieved the optimum and I can attribute that to inadequate resources. “We pray that at the end of this interaction, we will see better ways and means of providing the necessary provision of resources to enable our armed forces continue with national case to provide national security. “We need to protect the lives and property of citizens to stabilise our environment for economy to receive better investments for this country; to be a hub for investments that will provide employment opportunities to our teeming youths. Thank you very much.”