This new partnership in Nigeria has increased Piaggio’s presence to more than 60 countries globally Piaggio Vehicles Pvt Ltd (PVPL), a 100 % subsidiary of the Italian Piaggio Group and India’s leading manufacturer of small commercial vehicles is proud to announce its distribution partnership with Bhojsons Group of Nigeria. Bhojsons Group is a renowned conglomerate Headquartered in Lagos with diversified business interests in varied sectors spanning Automobiles, Fast-moving consumer goods, Consumer Durable goods, Power solutions, Packaging solutions, Polymers, Agricultural machinery, Domestic machinery and infrastructural needs for the telecom industry. Through this partnership, Piaggio, the pioneer of 3 wheelers, aims to introduce a diverse product portfolio that includes passenger and cargo 3 wheelers under its flagship brand Ape’. Piaggio commercial aims to increase its penetration along with Bhojsons Group in various parts of Nigeria to come close to its customer with its last-mile transportation offerings. The opening of multiple Dealerships and their training under Bhojsons across Nigeria is also in process. This will also help Piaggio customers in the region to have access to the entire Service & Warranty package offered by Piaggio. This association with Bhojsons Group for Nigerian Market marks Piaggio’s footprint expansion in more than 60 countries globally. Piaggio’s range of products offers best in class performance in terms of power, pick-up, mileage & maintenance. With this association with Bhojsons Group, Piaggio wants to strengthen its relationship with customers and reinforce its commitment to providing path-breaking solutions in the last mile transportation segments with cleaner and efficient fuel options. While announcing the launch of this association, Mr Saju Nair, EVP of Piaggio Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. said, “We endeavour to continue providing best in class offerings to our customers which are not only best in technology but also are most suited for higher earnings. We want to reach out to as many customers as possible and create a good foothold in all the cities across Nigeria. It is imperative to strengthen our presence in Nigeria as it is one of the largest markets in Africa with a larger focus on commercial vehicles. Piaggio has one of the largest ranges of 3-wheeled vehicles for both passenger & Cargo applications. Our last mile transport solution vehicles generate self-employment & create entrepreneurs which is one of the aspects of primary importance to national development.” Further, he added that in Bhojsons Group we see a very valued partner who has a strong legacy in Nigeria having business roots as old as 150years+ and is diversified into many businesses including automotive. Bhojsons is coming to Piaggio as a natural partner who is one of the largest importers, assemblers and distributors of motorcycles, passenger tricycles and cargo tricycles in Nigeria. They have achieved great successes through their on-the-ground knowledge of the Nigerian market and consumer trends coupled with their unparalleled marketing and brand development activities in their current line of businesses. Piaggio would work on the ground along with Bhojsons team to further strengthen the brand in the market.” Commenting on this association, Mr Vishant Dalamal – Group Managing Director, Bhojsons Group said “am extremely delighted on this partnership with Piaggio as they represent a world-class quality product for the Nigerian market and Bhojsons is known to introduce quality brands from across the globe for Nigerian market for over 150 years of their presence in the country. Bhojsons automotive business is vertically integrated along the value-chain being an importer, assembler, brand developer, distributor and service provider. The vehicles are assembled at our state-of-the-art facility in Lagos. Further, this association would help small, medium businesses for a sustained logistics solution at a competitive operating cost unlike their current investments in large vehicles with big operating and maintenance cost. Piaggio has leadership in the cargo segment and is the preferred choice of corporates engaged in product distribution to consumers across the world for smaller payloads for last-mile market connectivity. With already a large 2W network on the ground, Piaggio business line becomes a natural extension to service this distribution network for us.” About Piaggio Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. Piaggio Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. is a 100% owned subsidiary of the Piaggio Group which is the inventor of 3 wheelers. Piaggio group started in 1884 in Pontedera, Italy. The company commenced operations in India in 1999 with the launch of the three-wheeler brand Apé, which was an immediate success and has grown from strength to strength over the years. PVPL created the market, grew it, and has sustained a dominant position in the Diesel 3 wheeler segment. Piaggio is a leading player in the light transportation industry with a complete range of three and four-wheelers in Diesel, Petrol, CNG, LPG fuel variants. The Company’s products are not only endorsed by over 2.7 million satisfied customers across India but also exported to more than 50 countries worldwide. Piaggio has a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant at Baramati in Maharashtra, [with an installed annual production capacity of over 300,000 three-wheelers and 80,000 four-wheelers]. It is also self-reliant in some of the engine categories with the completion of its advanced engines plant on the same campus. Piaggio has an over 3000-strong workforce comprising experienced engineers, R&D specialists, plant workers, sales, service and marketing professionals. About Bhojsons Group, Nigeria: Bhojsons Group of Companies traces its roots in Nigeria way back to the 19th Century, as a part of J.T. Chanrai Group. Since the 1950s, under the leadership of Mr B. B. Chanrai, the Group has evolved into a conglomerate expanding its operations in the African sub-continent. Bhojsons Group today is managed by young and dynamic Group MD, Mr Vishant Dalamal who is steering the group’s growth for over a decade. Today, Bhojsons Plc is one of the largest importers, assemblers and distributors of motorcycles, passenger tricycles and cargo tricycles in Nigeria. Other group co.’s into manufacturing activities are one of the largest and leading PP (Polypropylene) Woven Bags, PP Woven Sacks and PP Woven Fabrics and Permanently Lubricated (PLB) HDPE Telecom Ducts manufacturer and supplier in Nigeria. Bhojsons group has a Pan Nigeria presence with 18 regional branches along with a warehousing facility at every location for the redistribution in Nigeria. They have an efficient logistic and warehousing network ensuring speedy supplies that cater to the after-sales requirements to gives their customers an unparalleled ownership experience.