The strike action embarked upon by the Judicial Staff of Nigeria (JUSUN) has caused the People Democratic Party (PDP) the opportunity of securing an injunction to stop All Progressive Congress (APC) from acquiring her secretariat. Speaking at the stakeholders meeting of the party, the Chairman of the newly constituted caretaker committee Barr. Efiok Cobham assured members that the property will soon return to PDP He urged supporters of the party not to worry as the leadership of the party is doing everything within its reach to ensure that it retrieves its Secretariat from the APC led administration in Cross River State. Cobham who welcomed national members led by Senator Liyel Imoke and the national assembly caucus to the meeting said, “Why would he convert our Secretariat to that of APC, when the APC has multiple offices in Calabar. “The issues are just elementary. Their frustrations have just started. If previous administrations had behaved the way this present administration is behaving, where would we have been?. “We have gone beyond that level. There are about three Secretariats why capitalize on converting our office? I am assuring you that we will all remain focused. Whatever that is your wish shall be ours. “We are poised to bring back those values that we uphold. Whatever differences that we have as human. I want you people to put the event of last week behind. Our party still remains strong and virile in the state. Also speaking, a senator representing Cross River Central Senatorial District, Sandy Onoh urged party supporters not to be jittery that members of the PDP have moved with the Governor to the APC, “Some of them who are in his exco are still with us. In his remarks, a member representing Akamkpa/ Biase Federal constituency, Daniel Asuquo urged security agents not to take sides stressing that taking over the PDP secretariat, means Governor Ayade has declared war against a party that catapulted him to the limelight. Strike: We’ve grounded Kaduna – NLC President dares El-Rufai 