Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has named Senate President Ahmed Lawan and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami as two northerners against restructuring of Nigeria. Recall that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, had last week warned the governors of the Southern region against ban on open grazing in the region. The Minister described the position of the Southern Governors as “indeed dangerous.” According to the Attorney General, the Governors have no right to prohibit the liberty and freedom of movement of any Nigerian, adding that their declaration was as good as northern Governors coming out to ban spare parts trading in the North. Also, Lawan while reacting to the demand for restructuring and ban on open grazing, tongue lashed the governors, saying as elected leaders, they should not have taken such approach. Malami and Lawan spoke separately after an emergency meeting of Governors from the Southern Region in Asaba, Delta State which was held to proffer solutions to increasing security issues in the country. Meanwhile, bigwigs of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the South West on Sunday backed the ban on open grazing. Bola Tinubu, Bisi Akande, Olusegun Osoba and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, are among those who called for restructuring of the country and the creation of state police during a meeting in Lagos State on Sunday. And Kanu noted that the Minister of Justice Malami and Nigeria’s Senate President, Lawan are the ones waging war against restructuring of Nigeria, advising the South to break out. According to him, “The South have been demanding RESTRUCTURING. Now, Southern Govs & Southern caucus in NASS have joined in. That’s half of Nigeria. But 2 men – the Senate President and AGF Malami are saying the North won’t entertain it. “Dear South: Just walk away from Nigeria. Simple!” Kanu further lamented that “They [the North] have no sea but they are in charge of all sea ports in the South. “They have no single drop of oil but own all oil wells in the South and are in charge of NNPC. They score lowest in every exam yet they are Chief Justices, AGF, Supreme Court Judges and Army Generals.” Nnamdi Kanu declares position on restructuring 