A former House of Representatives member, Hon. Ladi Adebutu, has mocked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, over the roles he played during the electioneering campaign in 2019. Osinbajo was running mate to President Muhammadu Buhari for a second time in 2019, under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Before the election, Osinbajo spearheaded the Federal Government’s Trader Moni programme, as he visited markets to give out N10,000 loans to traders. But, speaking in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital, on Wednesday, Adebutu, who is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said the N10,000 was given out to secure votes, alleging that the Vice President has since remained quiet despite the situation of things in Nigeria. Adebutu said Osinbajo, who is a Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), doled out money to lure the youths into voting for the APC. According to him, the youths have since been left in hunger and joblessness by the government of Buhari and Osinbajo, whose campaign promises he tagged, ‘Lori iro’, that is, based on falsehood. “This government put the youths in hunger and joblessness. During their campaigns, my ‘brother’ in Ikenne Local Government, you all know him, Pastor; he was doing business that time. He was dashing out N10,000 each to the youths for them to vote for the APC. “You all know Pastor, don’t you? The Vice President. I am talking of Yemi Osinbajo. Soro soke! (Speak up). Osinbajo is there, claiming he is representing us, but it is all based on lies. Our youths were killed during the EndSARS protest, the so-called Pastor did not say anything. What is the outcome of our economy? Everything is ‘lori iro’ (based on lies),” Adebutu stated. The Ogun governorship aspirant recalled that the APC promised to improve on infrastructure, make the refineries work and end insecurity; saying, however, that nothing has been done since six years ago. “When the APC wanted to dupe us in 2015, they kept saying they wanted to do three things. They talked of infrastructure, that the roads were bad. They said there was no electricity, promising to fix everything. “They also promised that all oil refineries will start working and there will be a drastic reduction in fuel price. They also promised to end insecurity within two or three months. That time, we usually heard of Boko Haram killings in the North East only, we used to believe something like that would not get to us. But today, nowhere in Nigeria is safe. Everything about this government is based on lies. “I am always sad seeing some of our youths begging for money on the street. They will say Ladi, we are hungry, sometimes, I spend up to N100,000 or N50,000 for this. Is that the solution? Let’s work together to take over governance from the APC to improve the lives of everybody. “Our leaders have no mercy. But, let me remind you that whoever God does not send to you cannot deliver a message to you,” the former lawmaker stressed. Making a veiled reference to Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Adubutu spoke further that, “someone living in Banana Island, who comes to Ogun State by helicopter, can never know what you’re going through. “I have been living among you in Ogun State since 1991. I am a farmer. Come and see me in Iperu, I live in Ward 5. I don’t live on Banana Island. We can’t be voting for expatriates. They can never show us mercy,” Adebutu submitted. Ogun PDP: Kashamu, Adebutu factions reunite; vow to unseat APC in 2023 