Foremost Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law, Prof. Akin Oyebode has said that massive investment in the education sector can quell terrorism in Nigeria. Oyebode stated this on Friday while delivering a lecture at the 21st National delegates conference of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State. The professor said terrorism is an ideology evolved by terrorists and sold to their followers but with massive investment in education, the psyche of young people could be reshaped. Speaking on the topic: state terrorism and Nigeria development, Oyebode said: “From terrorism to banditry, to gunmen, insecurity has exposed the underbelly of the country’s security. “Nigeria today has fallen to insecurity and nowhere is safe in the country. Terrorism is an ideology that is held by terrorists, who in turn pass it to others. “What we need to do is to educate people who hold this belief to destroy the ideology. We need to invest massively in education to destroy the ideology already held by terrorists. We will continue to demand that the budgetary allocation to education for our country be enhanced. That is how we can fight terrorism,” he said. Earlier, ASUU National President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi who presented a valedictory speech said the union chose the topic to depict the country’s current developmental challenges and proffer solutions. On his tenure as president of ASUU, he said: “We cautiously celebrate victories on a number of campuses, but we must also admit that it’s not yet Uhuru. The court case over Governor Yahaya Bello’s purported ban of ASUU and dismissal of over one hundred members of the Union at the Kogi State University, Anyingba, has continued to linger for close to three years. “We have a similar experience at the Lagos State University where some impostors, not known to NEC, continue to parade themselves as ASUU leaders. The Ebonyi State Governor cleverly retracted his attempt to outlaw the ASUU at a law court. “In the circumstance, our Ebonyi State University (EBSU) Chapter is left in limbo; with an avalanche of unresolved welfare issues placed before the Governor and Visitor to the University. All efforts to have a meaningful dialogue with the EBSU Visitor were rebuffed.” The event had in attendance the leadership and members of various chapters of the union all across the country. Vice-Chancellor of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Prof Charles Esimone, former Vice Chancellors: Professors Ikenna Onyido and Joseph Ahaneku, President of Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wanna, Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro among others were in attendance Insecurity: Nigerians should repent, seek divine intervention – Kebbi gov, Atiku 