As part of activities to mark the birthday of their father, the family of Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe, MD/CEO T Pumpy Concept LTD, developers of T Pumpy Estates Abuja on Saturday visited the Shining Star Orphanage Home in Lugbe, Abuja. Leading the family to the orphanage home, Mrs. Seun Adaralegbe, said the gesture is done yearly to celebrate the life of her husband and as well reach out to the less-privileged. Mrs. Adaralegbe, who was in company of her three children, Akin, Deji and Keji, said they could not let the day go unnoticed despite the father’s absence due to official duties. “Today, the children are here to thank God for the life of our father, Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe. “We want to thank God for what her has been doing through him. You could recall that sometimes last year, he was here in person to celebrate with you. “He’s away on official duty and the children insisted we must not let the day go unnoticed, that is why we are here.” Recall that in 2021, Mr. Adaralegbe, fulfilled his promise to the Rising Stars Orphanage Home. The real estate mogul had during one of his visits to the orphanage to mark his birthday, promised to give a plot of land to the orphanage home. He said the gesture was done to remind the orphans that there is still hope for them. The MD/CEO handed over the land document to the orphanage home matron, Mrs. Hannah Emeh, in June 2020. Mr. Adaralegbe is known for his philanthropic gesures. Few weeks back, as part of the programme to celebrate this year’s Children’s Day celebration, Abuja-based real estate firm, T Pumpy Concept Limited has announced a slash in the prices of their lands. With the promo, a 300SQM of land located in Kwali area of Abuja with Certificate of Occupancy is now going for N120k. Speaking on the reason for the promo, the MD/CEO of T Pumpy, Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe, said the discount is to celebrate the Nigerian child and build a better future for them. His words, “I know some people would ask, how possible it is because the law forbids underage from owing landed properties, but that is not an issue as parents could sign on behalf of the child. “By the time the child turns 18, the land automatically becomes his or hers. If you recall that when we signed Oreofeoluwa Lawal-Babalola of the Mummy Calm Down fame; as one of our ambassadors, it was the mother that signed on his behalf. “So, with this, even a day old child can own a land through their parents. “The market price of the land is about N400k but we are giving a 150 per cent discount to celebrate our children,” Mr. Adaralegbe said. The T-Pumpy Concept team have decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home designs and constructions. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve. Corporate Office address: No. 12, Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II district, Abuja, Annex House 23, (F) Road, Beside RCCG Resurrection Parish, FHA Lugbe, Abuja. Follow us on our social media platforms. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube : T.pumpy Estates Website: http://tpumpyconcept.com WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380