Nigerians have blasted President Muhammadu Buhari for ordering the Nigerian flag to fly at half mast in all public buildings and facilities in honour of Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, the late Chief of Army Staff, saying the flag is already blood-stained. Buhari also approved a work free day for members of the Armed Forces on Monday May 24. DAILY POST recalls that Attahiru and others, who lost their lives in the plane crash, were buried on Saturday with President Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo absent. He, however, sent delegates led by the Chief of Defense Staff General Leo Irabor to the burial. Also in attendance were, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; SGF, Boss Mustapha, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao; Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State and the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, among others. Reacting some Nigerians said the directive to fly the National Flag at half- mast was an afterthought and damage control due to the criticism it received from Nigerians. Others said the flag has been desecrated after the #EndSARS shooting of peaceful protesters at Lekki toll gate, Lagos State. Here are some comments DAILY POST gathered from Twitter. @Dee_Lordson007, ”Hoist flag to show what ? Isn’t that the same flag #EndSars protesters waved and hoist when the so call Nigerian Army went to kill them 20/10/2020? They were even singing the National Anthem. Have y’all agreed to the fact of that? Have y’all shown any remorseful act? I stopped believing in the Flag on 20/10/2020. Nigerians May forgive the Army but people like me won’t do that those that died died in the plane crash had families so does those that y’all shot during the protest. You can shut our mouth but not our brain and our heart.” @Banky__moon, ”President Buhari could not even come out on National TV to join the nation in mourning the lost of the COAS and his crew. Instead we had his aides talking and you wonder why Mazi Nnamdi Kanu keeps saying that Buhari is dead and that there’s an impostor at ASO ROCK. @Benwealth01, ”What is more honorable to do to a man that died in active service than attend his burial or declare holiday in his honor. Doing these because Nigerians have been calling you out is not the best, rather being proactive is the best not reactive, you could as well send VP.” @RSpotless1985, ”Effect of criticism on the President’s attitude towards the death of these Officers.” @Otagbuo_Orie, ”The flag has been desecrated after the #EndSARS shooting of protesters. It has lost honor. May you get the wisdom to honor your #COAS and his soldiers who lost their lives. Amin.” @Ahmad0048170681, ”Your attendance at their burial would have been more important than this useless directive.” @chriscve4ik, ”Damage control. The worst form of government is the one that works on impulse. This is the main reason everything has fallen apart in the land.” @Oviephilip01, ”He should have attended the burial of his General and not using this as a smoke screen. Highly disappointing, you the handlers are not helping him at all, tell him the truth!” @iamowokoko, ”After how many days in a working country the flag would have been flown at half immediately the news was confirmed but hey this is Nigeria where the commander in chief is an ordained ILLITERATE.” @MarammaAzil, ”The same people he failed to honour, the same people he failed to mourn with their families. At this point I will recite this nursery rhyme for him” shame, shame, shame, shame!It’s obvious Tom &Jerry get sense pass him.” @PDP_2023, ”You are just waking up? You are not doing it because you want to. You are doing it because Nigerians called you out. CLUELESS!” Oyo begins COVID-19 vaccination 