Former England striker, Michael Owen, has predicted the outcomes of Sunday’s English Premier Leagues, final day fixtures. Leicester City will host Tottenham Hotspur at the King Power Stadium, while Chelsea will face Aston Villa in an away tie at Villa Park. Wolves will host Manchester United, while Liverpool will tackle Crystal Palace at Anfield, and Arsenal will take on Brighton at the Emirates. Providing his predictions, Owen told BetVictor, “At the turn of the year, you’d have thought this match would be a potential shootout for a Champions League spot. However, Spurs’ quick decline has seen them drop out of contention altogether, and with Leicester’s recent dip in form, we could be soon saying the same about them. “The Foxes need to beat Tottenham and hope one of Liverpool or Chelsea drop points to be guaranteed a place in the top four. Neither side have been at their best in the Premier League recently, and I can’t help but think back to last season when the Foxes threw away another great opportunity to play alongside Europe’s elite. “Brendan Rodgers’ men don’t seem to cope well in these pressurised situations, and I think Spurs men may sense that and pick up a final day win on the road. Leicester City 1, Tottenham Hotspur.” Commenting on the Wolves vs Manchester game, Owen said, “Wolves have been decent enough for most of the season, although I do feel they’d have done much better if Raul Jiménez hadn’t sustained that awful head injury early on. “United will finish higher than many expected. The Red Devils’ glorious away form is a huge positive to take away from the campaign, and I think back on their travels, they’ll take another three points here. Wolves 0, Manchester United 1.” Speaking on the Arsenal vs Brighton match, Owen said, “It’s been a season of ups and downs for Arsenal fans. It started off promisingly, but quite quickly cracks started to appear. “That said, they have won their last four Premier League matches, and up against a Brighton side that look a bit tired, I think the Gunners’ will end the season with a fifth victory in a row. Arsenal 1, Brighton 0.” On the Aston Villa vs Chelsea fixture, Owen said, “Despite having a couple of poor results in recent weeks, Chelsea must be happy with their campaign overall, especially the second half. “Blues’ fans have a UEFA Champions League final to look forward to next week, however, before then they must win here to be certain of their position in the Champions League. “As I said, their form of late has slipped slightly, however, if they turn up at their best, I think they’ll win this one. Aston Villa 0, Chelsea 2.” Speaking on the Liverpool v Crystal Palace, Owen said, “The Reds only need to match Leicester’s result to secure a top four finish. What’s more, they will finish third if they better Chelsea’s result. “It’s been some turnaround from the Reds. Injuries hit them hard in the first half of the season, so next year, with a fully fit squad, Jurgen Klopp’s men will be looking to challenge for the title once more. “Before that, however, this is a must win match. Up against a Palace side that has nothing to play for, I think they’ll get the job done. It’s 2-1 Liverpool for me. ” The kick-off time for all the matches is 4 pm. EPL: Owen predicts Man United, Arsenal, Tottenham, Chelsea, other fixtures 