A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Taraba State, David Kente, has joined the leagues of persons advocating for a Sovereign National Conference (SNC). He called on the federal government to as a matter of urgency commence the processes. The call, if adhered to, he believed would go a long way to address the issues that are presently affecting the corporate existence of the Nigerian citizens. The APC chieftain, who was one of the numerous governorship aspirants that jostled for the governorship ticket of the party in the last general elections, stated this on Friday while playing host to media practitioners in Jalingo, the state capital. Identifying the perceived domination of some groups over others as one of the major reasons some sections of the country are vehemently calling for disintegration, conveying SNC, in his view , would douse the tensions that have enveloped the country. The conference, he believed, would be the most suitable gathering for Nigerians to iron out their differences by discussing the national coexistence and corporate existence of the citizenry. Kente, who frowned at advocates of disintegration, urged them to have second thoughts by withdrawing their agitations , as some of the agitators, according to him “may not survive splitter nations.” Kente, who also doubles as one of the commissioners for the North East Development Commission (NEDC), also aligned his weight to those advocating for the provision of constitutional roles to monarchs spread across the country. Taking such step, the present security bedeviling the nation, he believed would soon be a thing of the past . He argued that the absence of constitutional recognition for the traditional rulers contributed to the present security predicaments confronting the nation. The chieftain, who expressed his readiness to support SNC , said “I will suggest that the Sovereign National Conference be organised to discuss matters bordering on our corporate existence.” More to his suggestions, he said “I will also advise agitators for Nigerian disintegration to have a rethink and dialogue towards addressing some of the perceived inherent injustice and inequality in Nigeria” stating that “It is obvious that people are feeling marginalized in the distribution of appointments and other resources which ordinarily supposed to have been equitable from local, state and federal.”