Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom and Senator representing Benue North West, Dr Gabriel Suswam on Saturday charged residents of Sankera constituency which comprises of Ukum, Logo and Katsina-ala local government areas to remain united against external forces as the battle against insecurity continues. DAILY POST reports that the constituency had in recent times witnessed unrest over attacks on communities by unknown gunmen and suspected Fulani herdsmen. Recall that about 36 residents were on Friday morning slaughtered in the Katsina-ala local government area when armed men suspected to be Fulani militias stormed the area. The two key political actors in the state gave the charge during the internment of late Mrs Hanny Imongivan Kyenge in Logo local government. Late Hanny Kyenge was the mother of Hon Kester Kyenge, former Executive Chairman of the local government and former House of Assembly Member who represented Logo State Constituency. Governor Ortom while sympathising with the bereaved family, asked God to grant the deceased peaceful eternal rest. The Governor urged the people of Sankera to cooperate with the state government to end insecurity in the area, stressing that Benue is called the Food Basket of Nigeria because of the food produced in the area. Senator Suswam who described the death of Hanny Kyenge as painful, charged youths and stakeholders from Sankera to put aside partisan politics and work together to tackle the insecurity in the area to regain the lost glory of the people. Tor Sankera, Chief Abu King Shuluwa who described life and death as creations of God, lamented the killing of eleven traditional rulers and many others in Sankera by criminal elements and bandits. Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly, Hon Titus Uba and member representing Katsina-Ala, Logo and Ukum at the National Assembly, Hon Richard Gbande in their separate contributions, prayed God to grant the deceased eternal rest. Head of the bereaved family, Hon Kester Kyenge, expressed gratitude to Governor, Senator Suswam and all who stood with the family in their time of bereavement. Suswam received $15.8m in his Maitama residence – EFCC witness 