Former Head of State, General Abdulsalam Abubakar, has called on the federal government to lay aside every infrastructural development and channel all resources to the security forces in the country to securing peace. Abdulsalam stated this in Minna when the Senate President, Ahmed Lawal paid him a visit to commiserate with him over the death of the father of Senator Sani Musa, the Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District. He explained that government needs to put a stop to every unnecessary development across the country and focus on security, saying, if there is no peace, there cannot be a country. According to the elder statesman,” My suggestion is that due to the overstretching of our security forces, I think, all the necessary fundings should be given to the security forces. I suggest that we look at the unnecessary development issues in the country and do the needful to make life bearable and let us face this insecurity by diverting the necessary fundings to secure peace in this country. If there is no peace, there will be no country. “Nigerians as a whole are good people, they don’t ask for much but there are few irresponsible ones making life very difficult and I hope the good Lord will guide them to see reason and give peace a chance.” The Senate President, Senator Lawan, in his address, thanked Gen Abdulsalami for his advice, adding that the courage, resolve and determination of Nigerians would help the country in surmounting its presently challenges. “Every single hand is needed on deck today. As leaders, elected or appointed, we have responsibilities and obligation to the citizens. We need the support of the citizens as well to solve the numerous problems that Nigeria faces today. He further added, “There are so many issues, some people are agitating for the separation of the country but I believe that majority of Nigerians want Nigeria to remain a single country. And those who are on the sidelines, who are agitating should be guided properly, let them see the reasons why we should continue to be together.” Insecurity: Invite Babangida, Gowon, Abdulsalam, others now – Clark to Buhari 