The Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) Lockdown Reunion show is set to hit TV screens soon. The 2020 season of the reality show, tagged “BBNaija Lockdown” was held at the centre of the COVID-19 pandemic. Twenty housemates from different backgrounds were admitted into the house. The game witnessed betrayal, drama, emotions and intrigues which housemates displayed in front of the camera for over two months. The season 5 housemates Laycon, Erica, Ozo, Vee, Prince, Dorathy, Lilo, Praise, Brighto, Ka3na, Eric, Kiddwaya, Lucy, Kaisha, Neo, Nengi, Tochi, Tolanibaj, Trickytee and Wathoni were all 21 years and above as the rules imply. Laycon was crowned winner of the 2020 edition of BBNaija and went home with a grand prize of N85 million. The reunion is here again and is meant to bring to the viewers up to date of what has been going on with the former housemates. For instance, followers of BBN would want to know what has become of Laycon and Erica regarding their sour relationship while In the house as Ebuka Obi Uchendu, the show host, take them through the past and present events. Hopefully, by June 2021, all the ex-participants of the season will meet Ebuka again under one roof, who would attempt to probe into their present lives while making connections with the past. The reunion will air on Gotv channel 2 and DSTV channel 153 everyday at 10:30 pm. Through Ebuka’s questions, the viewers will be exposed to the ex-housemates’ current relationship status, career, projects, life achievements, cases of disloyalty and unresolved misunderstandings, among others. It is expected that the reunion will witness drama due to ‘slander and verbal war as usual. Some of the issues Nigerians would be eager to know about include Vee and Tolanibaj relationship; Erica and Kiddwaya and how Laycon and Erica were able to sort out their differences after the show. Meanwhile, the organisers had last month stated that preparation to open the audition for season six was ongoing. It also announced a grand prize of N90 million for the winner of season six.