Sam Allardyce has suddenly announced his resignation as the manager of West Bromwich Albion. Allardyce said he will leave after West Brom’s last Premier League game on Sunday, saying he believes the club need to appoint a more long-term manager. West Brom are already relegated to the Championship as they are finishing the season in 19th place. This is the first time Allardyce is suffering relegation in his long career despite the club’s performances improving under him. “West Bromwich Albion made me a generous offer to stay at The Hawthorns that shows the commitment of an ambitious club,” he said in a statement to the club’s official website on Wednesday night. “After serious consideration I have decided not to accept that offer. If I were to stay and achieve promotion next season the expectation would be for me to continue for at least another season and, sadly, that is not a commitment I feel able to make at this stage of my career. “I believe the club now needs stability and continuity and this would, in my opinion, best be provided by a young and ambitious manager. “I must thank the players and staff, in particular Luke Dowling and Ken [Xu Ke], for their unwavering commitment to a very difficult challenge during my time at the club. “The club have asked for my opinion on the qualities my successor will require and I have been more than happy to offer my thoughts. “The search for my replacement starts after the final game of the season at Leeds United.” Sam Allardyce, who started his managerial career in 1992 at Limerick as a player-manager, had had a brief stint as the coach of the senior England national team. The Englishman had also managed other clubs such as Bolton Wanderers, Preston North End aa caretaker manager, Blackpool, Notts County, Newcastle United, Blackburn Rovers, West Ham United, Sunderland, Crystal Palace, Everton before managing West Bromwich Albion. Allardyce decision came after West Brom’s 3-1 defeat to West Ham United in front of their returning supporters on Wednesday night. West Brom’s last game of the season will be against high flying Leeds United who will also be welcoming their fans back to the stadium as COVID-19 restrictions eases down in the United Kingdom. EPL: Sam Allardyce criticises Premier League after West Brom’s 5-2 win over Chelsea 