Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle of Zamfara State has advocated collective efforts among all critical stakeholders in the State to work together in the fight against banditry and other heinous crimes in the State. The Governor made the call when he received the former Minister of Defence, General Muhammed Mansur Dan Ali (rtd) who paid him Sallah homage at the Government House, Gusau. Governor Matawalle who expressed appreciation with the visit of the former Defence minister said, “as the leader and Governor of the state, I would do all that I can to ensure that peace and tranquility are fully achieved in all parts of the state” he added. He assured the efforts of working round the clock and with the support of the state and federal Governments as well as stakeholders in the area of security, peaceful coexistence will come to stay in the state. The Governor assured that the peace initiative embarked upon by his administration will continue to be maintained through stick and carrot approach irrespective of criticisms from the enemies of peace. He commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari, security agencies, traditional and religious leaders as well as all critical stakeholders in the fight against banditry and called on all and sundry to intensify prayers for an end to the menace. Earlier, the former Minister of Defence, General Muhammad Mansur Dan Ali (rtd) said he was at the Government House to felicitate with the Governor, Government and people of Zamfara State on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast and Eid-el Fitr celebrations respectively. General Mansur Dan Ali commended Governor Bello Matawalle for taking giant steps to restore peace and security in the state within the shortest possible time. The former minister emphasised that the people of Zamfara State and even beyond are aware of Governor Bello Matawalle’s untiring efforts to ensure the return of peace in the state, and encouraged him to continue with his administration’s peace initiative. He, however, enjoined people of Zamfara State to rally round the administration of Governor Bello Matawalle and pray for peace and tranquility in the State. Later, the Governor conducted the former Defence Minister round the new presidential lodge, and 18 new Guest Houses within the Government House constructed by Bello Matawalle administration and other infrastructures in the state, where the former minister expressed confidence and the ability of the Governor in transforming the state into an enviable position. FBI hails EFCC for efforts on global crime war 