Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has restated the commitment of his administration to the strict enforcement of the anti-open grazing law already passed by the State House of Assembly. Governor Ikpeazu, who was addressing a delegation of the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Dr Samuel Kalu Uche at Government House Umuahia, on Thursday, said that the move was in response to the excesses of the criminal herdsmen terrorizing our people.  He further assured that plans were underway to “flush criminal herdsmen from our forests.” Ikpeazu, who restated the commitment of his administration to the security of lives and properties of Abians, described as worrisome the absence of any South Easterner in the security architecture of the country, meaning that while the South East region is a direct victim of the activities of criminal herdsmen and other sundry security challenges, nobody from the region is part of the highest decision making body when it comes to security.  He stressed the need for Igbo youths to trade with caution in the prevailing security situations, adding that with resilience, dedication and the age-long Igbo apprenticeship mentorship system, Ndigbo will definitely dominate the socio-economic landscape of Nigeria. The State Chief Executive noted that Abians are known globally for their ingenuity and entrepreneurial skills and has remained the SME capital of Nigeria, noting that no foreign direct investment will will be recorded in the midst of insecurity.  Governor Ikpeazu stated that he has express confidence in the ability of The Methodist Church Nigeria in managing the physical, spiritual and mental upbringing of Children and that his administration will keep partnering the church in the academic development of Abia children. He assured that his administration will consider the request of the Prelate for the return by government, of some schools originally owned by the church. Earlier in his speech, the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence, Dr Samuel Kalu Uche said that he is an advocate of a Nigeria with true federalism devoid of marginalization of any section or region.  The Methodist Prelate regretted the level of marginalization of Ndigbo within the Nigerian political firmament and called for an additional state for the south East in the ongoing constitution review to enable the region be at par with others in number of states. Dr Kalu Uche who also expressed support for the ban on open grazing by the Southern Governors, condemned in its totality the wanton destruction of lives and properties of Nigerians especially Christians in the north. He noted that he has been following the Governor’s transformation agenda with remarkable Infrastructural facelift in Aba and other parts of the state.  NSCDC gives strict warning to private guards operating in Jigawa 