As Nigerians anxiously await the appointment of a new Chief of Army Staff, Ohanaeze Ndigbo has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to utilize the opportunity and right the injustice against the Southeast. DAILY POST reports that the COAS seat is now vacant following the death of Lt. Gen Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other military officers in a plane crash. There is currently no person from the Southeast in Nigeria’s security hierarchy. In a statement signed by Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, the Secretary-General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, he said while the zone was not lobbying for the appointment, Buhari should seize the opportunity to reverse the wrongs against the Southeast. He said while it remained “the prerogative and discretion of President Muhammadu Buhari to replace the late Lt Gen Ibrahim Attahiru with any officer of his choice, Mr. President must focus on competence and nationalism in accordance with the tenets of Federal Character, as omission of Southeast in the security council fuels disintegration. “We are not lobbying for a Southeast officer as the replacement for late COAS but we are drawing the attention of President Buhari to evaluate the privileges of being unpredictable and reverse the suspicion that he is biased against Southern Nigeria leading the Army. “Every geopolitical zone should be represented in the security council to boost national reintegration and restoration of confidence amongst other Nigerians that Mr President ‘belongs to nobody but everyone.’ “The change in the body language of Mr. President will energize every Nigerian to partake in the fight against insurgency and insecurity challenges facing the country.” The Ohanaeze scribe expressed optimism that only a South-Easterner would break through the cabal siphoning the considerable budgetary allocation mapped out for security purposes and recycling insurgency. “We are unmistakable that Northern cartels are the major beneficiaries of the insecurity and rebellion. “If President Buhari is determined to end the insecurity challenges confronting the nation, he should break the spell and terrify those immoral elements pressurizing him to undermine the South and re-appoint another Northerner as COAS. “Definitely, the promising direction to re-assert himself as the people’s President is for Buhari to appoint a Southern COAS,” he further stated. Govt’s failure to address insecurity affecting Nigeria’s investment opportunities – Atiku Abubakar 