In 2019, the 16 years reign of former Senate President, Bukola Saraki as the King of Kwara politics came to an end in the hands of a coalition. The coalition, which comprises the Incumbent governor, Abdulrahaman Abdulrasaks, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Muhammed, Minister of Transportation (State), Gbamisola Saraki, (who is also the younger sister of Saraki) and ex-loyalists of the Saraki, ended the reign of Saraki. But in less than 2 years, things are falling apart in the O to ge camp. As the Governor tries to consolidate hold on party structure, loyalists of Lai Muhammed and Gbemisola Saraki and co are equally reacting. The removal of the former Chairman, APC Caretaker Committee, Bashir Bolarinwa and the crisis that followed the APC membership revalidation exercise appears to tell a story for a peak inhouse fighting. Stakeholders, such as Iyiola Akogun, Lukman Mustapha, Moshood Mustapha and others have also complained of marginalization by the Governor. Local Government election: The Governor has refused to conduct local government election since his emergence. In 2019, all the 16 local governments in the state were littered with campaign posters of aspiring politicians for local government posts. 2years after, no election has been conducted. The Governor instead appointed caretaker committees for all the local government, many believed to be loyalists to the AA movement Chief Segun Okunloye, an aspirant for Isin Local Government Chairman under the APC said that the chances of Saraki coming back to take control is about 90%, unless the Governor changes his style of governance. “The chances of the former President of the Senate coming back is like 90% because of the situation of things in Nigeria and Kwara state in particular. The governor is running the state like a family affair,” he said. He also said that there was a strong possibility of a merger between the PDP and aggrieved persons under the APC. “We have leaders, and they will be the ones to evaluate the possibility of a merger with any other structure in the state. In my view, there would be movement across political parties,” he added. Kwara North governorship factor… Kwara North Senatorial district is the only district that has not produced a governor in the state since 1999. The incumbent is from North Central, ex-governor Mohammed Lawal (1999-2003) served for four years and he was succeeded by Saraki, who served for 8years. Abdulfatah Ahmed from Kwara south served 8years from 2011 to 2019. The agitation for power shift came up strongly during the last election. The governorship candidate of the PDP at the last election, Rasak Atunwa even promised to serve a single tenure. A source close to the Ex-Senate President revealed that he is currently in Ilorin, the state capital for the last 10 days of Ramadan. This source reveals that Saraki has been hosting different forums and different stakeholders from all the local governments in the state. He noted explained that a merger between the Senate President and element in the APC will depend on what happens at the centre. “Definitely there will be movements, particularly former allies of Saraki that moved from PDP to APC before the election. “But for others like Lai Mohammed, it will depend on the national politics. Lai is an ally of Bola Tinubu. And Sen Gbemisola is a Minister in the cabinet of Buhari. But we are working,” the source said.