Some Nigerians have taken to social media to air their views on the ongoing scuffle between the Kaduna State Government and Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC. Recall that the NLC, on Monday, declared five days warning strike following the sack of workers in the State, allegedly without following due process. NLC also shut down the power supply in the State, rail and air operations, as well as other commercial activities. Following the development, DAILY POST reported that the Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai declared the NLC Chairman, Ayuba Wabba wanted over the alleged economic sabotage and attack on public infrastructure under the Miscellaneous Offences Act. The Governor equally appealed to anyone who knows Wabba’s whereabouts to inform Kaduna government. Also, the Governor ordered the sack of all nurses below level 14 under the state government. El-Rufai In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye said “Apart from the nurses involved to the Ministry of Justice, all nurses below Grade Level 14 have been sacked.” Reacting, some Nigerians who didn’t seem pleased with the ongoing tussle in Kaduna took to social media to slam Governor El-Rufai. While some said he’s not ashamed to display his tyranny in full glare, others said the idea of him becoming the next Nigerian President cannot be nursed. They said should that happen, people will be begging Buhari to come back. Here are some reactions gathered by DAILY POST; @Ayosogunro, “I shudder to think of the idea of El Rufai as president. By the end of his first year, people will be begging Buhari to please come back.” @Sylviabaibee, “I can’t believe that anybody can be worse than Buhari.” @Daddymo, “And that won’t be surprising because many Nigerians suffer from mild to severe amnesia, depending on what part of the country you find yourself in.” @Malachyodo, “El-Rufai seems to me like someone who reads 48 Laws of power every morning and tries very hard to replicate everything he sees therein. He has the mind of a child.” @JJomojuwa, “Of all the things El-Rufai will do as governor, reducing the size of the civil service is the most predictable. He’s made that argument in his books and articles for years. Those who voted him knew what they were voting for. What some see as governance, others see as politics.” @Ayemojubar, “El-rufai refused to negotiate with bandits to free those his incompetence couldn’t secure, but placing a bounty on Ayuba Wabba and other NLC members for leading Kaduna workers on peaceful protest.That’s full-fledged insanity.” @Abdulbasit, “El Rufai called President GEJ; Drunkard, fisherman, clueless and all sorts of unprintable names, but today you are angered that protesters are calling Kaduna Governor ‘Hell Rufai’.” @Fisayosoyombo, “When Gov Nasir el-Rufai was famously participating at a rally against the Jonathan govt in 2014, it was not an act of “economic sabotage”.I’m no Jonathan fan and I do believe in the restructuring of the education sector, but declaring Wabba so wanted is quite over the top, tbh!” @Ayodele, “What has gone over Mal.El-Rufai? His declaration of Com.Wabba wanted is unbecoming of an executive Governor.This is a deliberate attempt to stifle the NLC.The body possess the right to raise voice against unfriendly policy of the Government again workers.” @Bruceesther, “If Ayuba Wabba gets arrested, the strike should be nationwide.No man has monopoly of violence.El rufai the failure.” @Somtoonuchukwu, “A lecturer and activist Dadiyata got kidnapped in Kaduna since August 2019, El Rufai has not declared a search for him nor has he charged the police to officially search for him.But same Elrufai is quick to declare Labor leaders wanted over protest.” @Umarhassan, “El-Rufai called Chidi Odinkalu a liar for telling the world public schools,hospitals etc in Kaduna were shut..But then in his typically insane response to issues like this,he goes on to sack nurses & lecturers in Kaduna for joining the strike.Where is the lie?” @Chidi, “One thing about El-Rufai, he’s not ashamed to display his tyranny in full glare.” @Realsolakuti, “Dictator Nasir El Rufai has finally unmasked himself. Keep supporting tyrants if you will.” El-Rufai fires nurses 