The idea of a political summit as a means of solving Nigeria’s myriad of security challenges has been put forward. Proponents of this solution say it will calm frayed nerves and assure the people that the government has their best interest at heart. Giving this idea as a guest on a radio current affairs programme in Osogbo, Dr. Yinusa Tanko, the National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and the Spokesperson of the National Consultative Front (NCF) asked the government to call for a national security meeting and a political summit. He said it was clear that the present administration is overwhelmed and has shown weakness in handling the current security situation. He said since the government has not been able to deal with the matter of insecurity, citizens have resorted to self-help. In his words, “The Nigerian state at the moment is in dire need of help and the government should not be ashamed to seek help from those they have neglected. “Government have allowed the issue of insecurity to stay for too long without taking a decisive action and if care is not taken, more situations will arise because of the way the government is handling insecurity in Nigeria.” On the news that some disgruntled persons were calling for the impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari, the NCF spokesperson claimed that such was the case because the people had become unhappy. “The accusation is that the President has been lackadaisical in dealing with the Fulani herdsmen crisis, banditry, kidnappings and insurgency. “Some of the bandits have revealed that it was some of the politicians that armed them during elections and they want to teach some of them a lesson because they abandoned them after achieving their aims. “Kidnapping has moved from groups to individuals, becoming a recurring decimal even in neighbourhoods. “The tide must be stemmed. We need to deal with hunger, corruption, accountability and incompetence lacking in this government. “Anybody who does not have a solution to Nigeria’s teething problems does not have business being in power. If a leader cannot deal with a problem as it rears its head, the problem may consume such a leader.” While revealing that there was no room for grandstanding and name-calling anymore, Dr. Tanko maintained that the spokespersons of the President were not helping the situation. He advised the administration to retrace its step and apologise to those it offended.
.