The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun has told the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the 2018 Osun Gubernatorial Election, Senator Ademola Adeleke that his penchant for telling lies will be his nemesis in the 2022 polls if his party presents him as their candidate. The party was reacting to Adeleke’s purported interview published in a national newspaper on Sunday. He was quoted to have said the PDP won outrightly in the 2018 governorship election but was compromised and that the inconclusive declaration was a misnomer and pre-planned to achieve undemocratic outcomes and the rerun was a charade. This reaction was contained in a statement signed by the party’s Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Kunle Oyatomi and made available to DAILY POST on Monday in Osogbo. Oyatomi said the senator’s claims were laughable and childish. According to Oyatomi, “In any contest, there is a winner and a loser, but Senator Ademola is still dreaming and hallucinating on how he lost in the last gubernatorial election after the case had been finally settled in the Court of Justice. “It is a pity that after 30 months of Oyetola’s administration, Adeleke could still express a jaundiced opinion that the rerun election was ‘a charade and the judgment was a judicial fraud. This has further shown his poor state of mind that only those that are out of their minds still live in the illusion”. The party maintained that Adeleke is unworthy and unqualified to be the governor of Osun as he lacked the moral, ethical and responsible credentials to occupy the post adding that he had been charged and detained for certificate forgery and examination impersonation related offences. The APC described Adeleke as one of those who still lived in the delusion of PDP’s lies in Osun, which significantly distorted their minds and their mental capacity. “There is no doubt that Oyetola has proven beyond the imagination of critics, and has made 2022 gubernatorial election easier for the ruling APC but more difficult for the PDP in the state as the majority of the people of Osun are very happy with Oyetola’s style of governance. “The people now know, without any doubt that Oyetola is far better to handle Osun than Adeleke. They have experienced Oyetola as an administrator par excellence.” Oyatomi also chided Senator Ademola for boasting around with a controversial Bachelor’s Degree in Criminal Justice at the old age of 60. “This means that the Senator is shameless and it shows that he was a truant who spent his youthful age for nothing important but dancing around the corner for nothing significant. “APC will be happy to have Ademola once again as our main opponent. He will be taught a great lesson on how not to know one’s limit. It takes more than a degree from one corner in America.” Anambra 2021: Police officers threaten boycott over non-payment of Ondo election allowance 