Grammy winner, Burna Boy has come under attack for saying he does not make money from Nigeria. Burna on Tuesday while responding to tweets by fans on Twitter said he is not a Nigerian artist and does not make money from here. According to him, Nigeria is just for cruise. His fans did not take his comment lightly as some went online lamenting about the number of times they streamed Burna’s music and attended his concerts. Here are some comments gathered by DAILY POST from Twitter; @Enacruzly “You are indirectly saying, we the fans in Nigeria streaming your music are not adding anything to your growth.” @Bright_r “Burna Boy says he’s not a Nigerian artiste but can’t make a hit song without stealing lines from Fela music. The irony. Someone should remind him that 60% of his biggest songs came from Fela.” @ DavidRegha “Burna Boy you are still a Nigerian artiste, winning a Grammy and having collaborations with foreign artistes won’t change that; Nigerians are the reason you are thriving in the music industry so stop feeling pompous. This attitude is the reason a lot of people dislike your personality.” @Iamcandychief “Does that mean the person that said your success is tied to Atlantic is right? If you don’t make money from Nigeria, so why the Naija concerts? If you don’t make money from Nigeria so why are you using Afrobeats to make money? @DekingKudos “If that’s the case, I think you should just make your next album unavailable for your Nigerian audience and let’s see how far you will go.” @Greatkd2 “Na only Burna Nigeria fans I pity Sha All your efforts wey you dey use stream that zoo album Burna still say he no dey make money from Nigeria.” @Carbon3_0 “Sigh but I dey stream your music with money.” @Innovativenig “You changed your dealer? You shouldn’t be caught tweeting this man! A lot of us including myself pre-ordered your albums. So how about your endorsements chief? @ImmanuelSaba “So, Nigerians streaming your music are doing charity, noted.” @JoeyAkan “ Burna Boy is stating the truth. The Nigerian music industry is growing and there are multiple income streams being created. But the current Holy Grail of Nigerian music is when the music travels and earn forex. Musicians make more money outside Nigeria than within the space.” @Otunba “Lmaooo Burna don finally accept say Atlantic dey buy streams for am, baba say he no dey make money from Nigeria? Outsiders that paid for Burna’s concert in Eko hotel in 2018 in the mud.” @Itzbasito “Burna Boy no rate his 11 outsiders at all, imagine saying na only cruise they give you.” @ Dammy426 “ Our bragging right don increase, as Burna denied himself as a Nigerian, Wizkid is now the first and the only Nigerian artist to win Grammy.”