The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, has directed CBT Centres to stop selling ePINs to candidates or face the consequences of flouting the directive. The JAMB Registrar, Professor Ishaq Oloyede gave the directive in a statement released on Saturday, adding that flouting the directive would attract appropriate sanctions. The statement signed by JAMB’s Director of Press, Fabian Benjamin said candidates have also been given more time to complete their registration for the 2021 UTME/DE, which was expected to end on Saturday, May 15, 2021. The Board explained that the extension of the registration for candidates was contingent upon stakeholders’ firm commitment to deliver on their respective responsibilities. “After a thorough meeting with the board, stakeholders recommended a two-week extension for registration, to now end on May 29, 2021. “Accordingly the 2021 Mock UTME earlier scheduled for 20th May 2021 will now hold on June 3, 2021, while the main UTME will hold from June 19 – July 3, 2021. “JAMB will dispatch monitoring teams to all States of the Federation and the FCT during the extension period. “There will also be a Committee under the Chairmanship of Director (ICT/FME) to seek for an alternative Value Added Service (VAS) company. “JAMB hereby directs CBT Centres to stop selling ePINs and flouting this directive should attract appropriate sanctions. “Furthermore, no CBT centre should collect money for ePIN and registration fees simultaneously. No CBT centre should collect a registration fee until completion of registration. “Stakeholders reiterated the prohibition of group registration for candidates, with the threat of sanction against any CBT centre that violates the instruction. “Also, CBT centres are directed to open all twenty (20) allowable registration points to, ease congestion at the centres. “Candidates for Direct Entry are reminded to, while procuring their ePIN, specify their category of admission. However, where a DE candidate mistakenly purchases an ePIN for UTME, the selling point is hereby directed to rectify the error by swapping the ePIN to DE at no further cost to the candidate. “Digital Service Providers are equally encouraged to expand their facilities, including the provision of redundancy links. “Lastly, the Federal Ministry of Education has been directed to discourage parents from seeking to register underage and immature candidates to pursue tertiary education ahead of their time,” the statement said. JAMB announces registration verification code, rules for CBT centres 