As kidnapping of Ogun residents continues unabated, a leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olumide Aderinokun has accused the Governor Dapo Abiodun-led government of “not being proactive” in tackling the menace. DAILY POST reports that kidnapping has turned into a lucrative business in Ogun State as kidnappers make millions of Naira in ransom before releasing their victims. Between Thursday and Sunday, our correspondent gathered that about five persons were said to have been kidnapped in the Gateway State, including Toyinbo Olayinka, a 400-level student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta. Worried by the development, Aderinokun said the abduction or killing of a resident of Ogun State is a testimony that the governor has failed in his constitutional duties. Reacting in a statement made available to DAILY POST on Tuesday, Aderinokun urged Abiodun to focus on doing his job as the governor of the State. This, the Egba chief said, became highly important, “otherwise, the recent kidnappings and security challenges might further get out of his control.” The House of Representatives candidate said he was “saddened by the abduction of the final-year student of FUNAAB, who was captured alongside two other people at a farm in Abule-Itoko, along Abeokuta-Ibadan highway.” His words: “I think the governor should be reminded that anytime a resident of Ogun State is kidnapped or unlawfully killed, he has failed in his constitutional obligations. “Some months ago, the government launched Amotekun. Where are we with it? This is not the second time students are being kidnapped in Ogun State this year, not to talk of other residents.” “This government is not proactive and that is the root of the problems we are facing currently,” he told DAILY POST. FUNAAB students had on Monday protested the kidnap of their colleague, giving Abiodun a seven-day ultimatum to get the student released. But, Aderinokun advised them to be law-abiding in their actions, saying, “I urge the students of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta to be peaceful in their demonstrations and they should not obstruct other people from carrying out their daily activities.” Buhari’s policies scare investors – PDP chieftain, Aderinokun reacts as Twitter snubs Nigeria for Ghana 