Ahead of the 2022 gubernatorial election in Osun State, the alleged power tussle between Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola, who is the current Minister of Interior has been a thing of great concern for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The stage is now set for another round of imbroglio between the two political blocs following the purported demolition of Aregbesola’s 64th birthday banner at Old-Garage in Osogbo, the capital of Osun State on Monday. The billboard, which was erected by the Caretaker Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State, Rasaq Salinsile, on Sunday was said to have been destroyed by some unknown persons at the early hours of Monday. Meanwhile, the alleged feud between the Minister of Interior and Oyetola has been fuelled by the emergency of a group, The Osun Progressive (TOP) which was floated by Aregbesola. The group, is being coordinated by Elder Adelowo Adebiyi, who was the Chairman, Osun State Task Force on Mining and Forestry, during Aregbesola’s administration. Supporters of the two political gladiators in the party have been throwing jabs at one another at every slightest provocation. Recall that the Minister of Interior, who was two-term governor of Osun State fixed a function to mark 10 years of ‘progressive administration’ in the state while on the other hand, Governor Oyetola picked the same day to celebrate the second anniversary of his government. Another faceoff was when the former deputy governor of the state, Senator Iyiola Omisore, defected to APC. The minister who could not hide his feelings towards the defection of Omisore from the Social Democratic Party (SDP) faulted the defection at different fora. Though, both Aregbesola and Oyetola, had in several occasions denied any rift between them, a source who is very close to the governor told DAILY POST that the rift is a “fight to finish” which might not favour the party in the coming gubernatorial poll in the state. The Chairman of the APC in Osun State, Adegboyega Famodun, has denounced the formation of the splinter group within the party, while the group fired back saying “We would have been disappointed if Famodun had acted differently”. Some wings of the APC in Local Governments have distanced themselves from the Osun Progressive (TOP) group, it was gathered that the APC members in Ilesa East, the local government of the Minister recently banned the ‘TOP’ and endorsed Governor Oyetola for a second term. Likewise, Atakumosa West, Ilesa West among others. The decision, which was taken at a general meeting convened at the instance of the party Chairmen involving all the leaders and elders’ council, political appointees and ward executives. Splinter groups within Osun APC, absurd, unrecognised – Chairman, Famodun 