Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State and his Gombe State counterpart, Muhammadu Inuwa, have taken a joint decision proscribing militia groups and hunter associations in parts of the two states experiencing repeated communal clashes. The two governors convened a joint security meeting with leaders of affected communities and heads of security agencies Wednesday in which other decisions were taken to curtail the perennial crises. The communal clashes which have frequently occurred among the Lunguda people and Waja people around the borders of the two states in Guyuk local government area of Adamawa State and Balanga LGA of Gombe State recurred last month, claiming 15 people. The two tribal communities live across the borders of both states, so when conflict occurs between them, it spills across both states, often resulting in deaths and invariably sending residents into internally displaced peoples (IDPs) camps. The security meeting of Wednesday which took place in Numan, Adamawa State, was held under closed doors, but Governor Muhammadu Inuwa of Gombe State read the communique to the media, announcing that instruction had been given to close all IDPs camps and arrange for the return of all IDPs to their respective homes. According to the communique of the joint security meeting which was entitled Numan Accord and signed jointly by the Adamawa and Gombe state governors and traditional rulers of the affected communities, the two states constituted a joint peace restoration committee with members from the two states to cement peace among the warring communities. The communique said the traditional rulers of the affected communities had in the meantime been charged with fashioning out peaceful coexistence among their people. “The Paramount Rulers of these two communities: The Balaa Waja and Kwandi Nunguraya will ensure that the lingering land issues among the two communities are solved and people can go back to farm safely this rainy season,” the communique said. The Adamawa-Gombe joint security meeting took place late Wednesday after Governor Fintiri led his guest, Governor Inuwa of Gombe earlier in the day to commission a road constructed by Fintiri in the heart of Numan. Fintiri had said at the commissioning of the 3.5-km Numan township road that he was pleased to have completed the road project which he described as his government’s answer to perennial flooding in that part of Numan. Five friends burn to death in fatal car crash in Kaduna 