The crisis rocking the Bayelsa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress(APC), took a new twist on Wednesday following the opening of a new parallel party Secretariat in Yenagoa, the state capital. The Ebierien Fala Itubor led faction of the party who is in charge of the new secretariat and is suspected to be loyal to former Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, also accused the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, of failing in his leadership role. The newly opened parallel secretariat is miles away from the popular APC secretariat located around Bay bridge area, both in Yenagoa. The Sagbama coordinator of a group, known as the Timipre Sylva Supreme Ambassadors, loyalists to Sylva, Comrade Ebikewenemor Robert Romeo, dismissed claims against the minister, insisting that there is no faction in Bayelsa APC. Also speaking, the party’s Organizing Secretary, Comrade Tari Emperi said Sylva has proven himself as a credible leader that accommodates all party members and a performing minister that has attracted more development to the state despite his party affiliation. He said the party is more united than before with Chief Timipre Sylva despite the frivolous claim by a faction. But DAILY POST gathered that the decision to open the parallel secretariat has thrown up issues against the style of leadership of Chief Timipre Sylva in the party. It was also gathered that most prominent stakeholders in the party including Senator Lokpobiri, Chief David Lyon and many others have resolved to confront Sylva over the control of the party. They cited the alleged poor leadership style of Chief Timipre Sylva, which is chasing away party members in their numbers into the ruling PDP in the state including the recent defection of the APC State Assemblymember, Hon. Daniel Charles. They also claimed that Sylva had neglected to call a stakeholder meeting to resolve issues that arose from the last Governorship election and had allegedly neglected the party and engaged in anti-party activities with the negotiation of the party’s 2020 Governorship victory away to the People’s Democratic Party. The decision by the Hon. Ebierien Fala Itubor led faction of the party is coming few days after they wrote to the Mai Mala Buni led National Caretaker Committee that the gale of defections by party members to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) can only be halted by genuine reconciliation. A close aide to the factional Chairman of the APC, who pleaded anonymity, claimed that “the party members were angry at Chief Timipre Sylva for refusing to call an enlarged meeting of stakeholders of the party in the state to discuss the outcome of the 2020 Governorship election.”