Nigerian forces on Sunday engaged members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), the militant wing of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), over the murder of Ahmed Gulak in Imo. DAILY POST reported that intelligence services indicted IPOB for the death of the former political adviser to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. The former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2018. A Situation Report (SITREP) confirmed the ESN fighters blocked the Imo Airport road at Obiangwu Junction at Ngor-Okpala LGA, where Gulak was assassinated. After the ambush, security operatives interviewed the driver of the vehicle conveying Gulak to the airport. He disclosed the IPOB militants moved in a Toyota Camry 2005 Silver color, Toyota Sienna 1998 Model Gold Color, Toyota Hilux White color and Lexus RX 330 Gold Color. Police teams from the Special Forces, PMF, IRT, and Imo State Command Tactical Units were directed to immediately proceed on patrol and look for the vehicles. At Afor Enyi Ogwugu junction in the same LGA, the Police teams came in contact with the criminals. The fighters had confiscated a trailer loaded with onions from the North and were sharing them with locals. They took positions to protect themselves and attack any government agents. The hoodlums on sighting the Police team immediately opened fire on the team and the galant team returned fire. Ten of the hoodlums died during the gun battle while others were pursued as they escaped. Pictures of the deceased are too gory for publication. “3 of the Four Vehicles Toyota Sienna, Toyota Hilux and Toyota Camry used by the IPOB/ESN Terrorist for their Operation were demobilized/recovered. “7 of the terrorists with bullet wounds were completely burnt inside the Toyota Sienna and Hilux vehicles that caught fire during the gun battle”, the Sitrep read. Three AK-47 rifles, one English Pistol, five AK-47 magazines, 92 AK-47 ammunition, several charms and three operational vehicles of the IPOB and ESN were recovered. Efforts are on to trace and arrest wounded IPOB and ESN members hiding in the surrounding forests and villages. Gunmen murder Jonathan’s ex-adviser Ahmed Gulak in Imo 