The Police has confirmed that Eastern Security Network (ESN) fighters controlled by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) killed Ahmed Gulak in Imo. Earlier, the police had described the attackers as “armed bandits”. Gulak, an Adamawa Indigene, was the Political Adviser to former President, Goodluck Jonathan. After the gruesome murder, DAILY POST reported that intelligence services immediately indicted the ESN militants. But Biafra supporters dismissed the publication, insisting Gulak’s murder was “political assassination”. DAILY POST later saw the Situation Report (SITREP) which confirmed ESN fighters blocked the Airport road at Obiangwu Junction at Ngor-Okpala LGA and shot the politician. A statement Sunday night by SP Bala Elkana, Public Relations Officer, Imo Command, announced that the secessionist group perpetrated the act. The spokesman recalled that the Police acted immediately after a distress call about Gulak was received. The Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Tactical Units from the command were deployed to the scene at Obiangwu Junction at Ngorokpala LGA. They were given a clear instruction to identify and apprehend the culprits, Elkana noted. Relying on the account of witnesses and the driver of Gulak’s car, operatives tracked the vehicles used by the assailants. They include Toyota Camry 2005 model – silver color; Toyota Sienna 1998 Model – gold color; Toyota Hilux – white color; and a Lexus RX 330 – gold color. The Police was able to establish the location of suspects and rounded them up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise LGA. The hoodlums had distributed onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated after it arrived from the North. As agents moved in, they opened fire and tried to use residents as shield. “The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured. Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered”, Elkana said. “AK 47 Rifles, Pistol, magazines with ninety two rounds of live ammunition and charms were recovered. The assailants were identified as members of the proscribed IPOB and ESN. “The driver who drove late Ahmed Gulak and a co-victim who survived have all identified the dead body of the IPOB/ESN members positively as their attackers and also identified the three vehicles recovered as those used by the attackers.” Two police Armored Personnel Carriers (APC) were riddled with bullets. The Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro has hailed officers in the operation for the triumph. Gunmen murder Jonathan’s ex-adviser Ahmed Gulak in Imo 