No fewer than six (6) people have sustained severe injuries after some armed robbers invaded Alaafia Estate in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The incident occurred between the late hours of Sunday and early hours of Monday. Our correspondent gathered that about twenty armed robbers stormed the estate around 11pm on Sunday night and operated till around 2am on Monday morning. They dispossessed residents of valuables running into millions of naira. During the robbery operation, six residents of the area were wounded. DAILY POST gathered that the armed robbers had earlier robbed a Superintendent of Police and three flats a few days ago. Our correspondent, however, learnt that the armed robbers mobilised more gang members in a more deadly robbery where they carted away money, laptops, mobile phones and ATM card after obtaining their Personal Identification Numbers (PIN). Sources told DAILY POST that the robbers gained entry into the estate through the recently dredged Carnal linking Barika, Agbowo and Orogun. It was gathered that the armed robbers divided themselves and robbed concurrently in House numbers 33, 31, 25 among others. Some of those who were injured during the robbery operation include Peter in House 33, who sustained machete cuts on his left hand. Mr. Peter’s wife was said to have been beaten with a machete by the armed robbers. At house 31, where at least twelve flats were robbed, the robbers forced their victims to use the POS which they brought but when the network failed the transfer, they obtained the PIN and went away with their ATM cards. It was gathered that policemen from Ojoo Police Division later mobilised to the estate blowing serene and releasing gunshots as they made their way into the estate. The police were said to have recovered four machetes and a locally made pistol around the scene of the robbery. All efforts made by DAILY POST to get a reaction from the Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command Mr Adewale Osifeso was rebuffed. Calls put through Mr. Osifeso’s mobile phone were not answered.