Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi, has advised Nigerian youths to shift their attention from being Twitter revolutionaries. Fayemi, who doubled as Governor of Ekiti State, urged Nigerian youths to stop being Twitter revolutionaries, rather, they should get themselves involved in politics. He added that it is only when youths get themselves involved in politics that they can be involved in decision making process. He maintained that it is when they are in positions of authority that they (youths) can make positive impact in the lives of their people. Fayemi spoke on Friday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital at a national security and peace symposium organized to mark the 45th birthday anniversary of a member of House of Representatives representing Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/ Kajola/Iwajowa, Hon. Sina Peller. Dignitaries present at the symposium with the theme, “National Security and Peace: Role of Government, Citizens and Institutions” included former Governor of Oyo State, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, former Governor of Ogun State Senator Ibikunke Amosun, former ministers; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Barrister Adebayo Shittu and wife of the immediate past Governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi. Others are former Senate Leader, Senator Teslim Folarin, members of House of Representatives, Hon. Musliudeen Olaide Akinremi, Hon. Akin Alabi, Hon. Dibu Ojerinde and a former member of House of Representatives, Saheed Akinade-Fijabi. Traditional rulers included the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulraseed Akanbi and Aseyin of Iseyin. Fayemi, while declaring the symposium open, maintained that the best way for youths to contribute positively to thier communities is to get themselves involved in politics. “Our youths should not just be Twitter revolutionaries. “They have to get themselves in politics, so that they can contribute positively to their societies. “Youths should stand up and talk, they should join politics. They should join politics to be involved in decision making.” The keynote lecturer, Professor Isaac Olawale Albert, while speaking on the topic “A four dimensional framework for building peace and security in Nigeria” advocated for devolution of power. He also suggested involvement of traditional rulers in decision making. “There should be devolution of power. Power must be given to local governments and traditional rulers.” Twitter in Ghana: Nigeria losing huge investments, must address challenges now – Group 