Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Sagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State have cried out over alleged plans by some leaders to manipulate the outcome of the primary election conducted to choose a chairmanship candidate for the July 24 local government elections. They caled on Governor Dapo Abiodun to be wary of those trying to subvert the will of the people of Sagamu because of their closeness to him. According to them, the primary election was conducted on Monday by APC leaders, but some individuals are making frantic efforts to “sweep the election result under the carpet.” The concerned APC supporters stated that Hon Gbenga Banjo, known as Baruwa, is the winner of the primary election, saying he gathered 24 votes to defeat his closest rival, Afolabi Odulate, who had 16 votes. Speaking with DAILY POST, a leader of the party from Simawa ward in Sagamu, Olorundipe Ibikunle, disclosed that “the APC primary election result within the aspirants showed that Baruwa won with 24 votes after efforts by stakeholders to pick a consensus candidate failed. “All the leaders were allowed to cast their votes by writing the names of aspirants among those contesting. But, Baruwa won with 24 votes. “However, according to information gathered, one of the aspirants with the assistance of some aides of the Governor have started ‘romancing’ political leaders and APC stalwarts at the local and state level with money. They want to use their closeness to the governor to change the will of the people of Sagamu. “We are pleading with the Governor to investigate the selection and voting process and never allow anyone to destroy his goodwill and plans to deliver the dividends of democracy to the grassroots. “Mr Governor has promised to make the forthcoming local government election free, fair and credible without any sentiments or partiality, he should not allow money bags to tamper with that good intention. “We will implore His Excellency to avoid risking the future of Sagamu by not placing it in the hands of someone who is not the choice of the people. He should also warn those leaders and some of his aides, who have collected money from some aspirants to manipulate the result of the election to favour their choice of aspirant. Sagamu people will not allow that,” Ibikunle warned. DAILY POST had earlier reported that there is a cold war among members of the ruling party as chairmanship and councillorship aspirants battle for tickets ahead of the local government polls. Ogun: Two shot dead during robbery operations 